MAIN CARD
Yadong Song vs. Deiveson Figueiredo
Fight Odds: Song -600, Figueiredo +425
Odds to end ITD: -150
DraftKings Salaries: Song 9.5k, Figueiredo 6.7k
Weight Class: 135
A staple of the upper echelon of the bantamweight division, 
Yadong Song will get a main event spotlight at home in Macau 
against the former ﬂyweight champion Deiveson Figueiredo.
Song is a veteran of the UFC after competing in the promotion 
since 2017, and he’s arguably now in his prime at 28 years old, 
holding a 22-9-1 pro record with nine wins by knockout.
Song is a great athlete, and super explosive, and those have 
always been his best attributes. He’s a powerful boxer and he’s 
been able to use his physicality to do some damage, and pick up 
a bunch of knockout wins along the way.
I wouldn’t say Song is exceptional at anything else though, and 
he’s struggled to separate himself against the top of the division. 
At distance Song lands 4.9 strikes per minute while absorbing 
4.62 per minute which is ﬁne, but not substantially positive.
Granted, these opponents are the best in the division, but 
O’Malley outlanded Song 48-36 at distance, Yan outlanded him 
86-79 and Sandhagen outlanded him 86-44. Those are his last 
three losses.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

While he’s able to stay competitive in rounds as a quality boxer, 
Song doesn’t nearly have the volume or range management skills 
to consistently win rounds against the best, and he’s therefore a 
bit more limited to damage and moments.
I’ve never considered Song an elite wrestler, but he’s made 
dramatic strides in his grappling at Team Alpha Male over the 
years, and he’s coming off the loss to O’Malley in which he landed 
3 takedowns on 7 attempts. He still only lands 0.78 takedowns 
per 15 minutes and isn’t an elite ﬁnisher, but I like that he’s put 
effort into his offensive wrestling and I think it will only help him.
Overall, I think Song is a pretty good but not necessarily great 
ﬁghter. His youth, athleticism and power will certainly allow him to 
compete with most opponents, but without damage as a 
separator, he may still be in a high percentage of competitive 
rounds.
Song will next take on Deiveson Figueiredo who is 4-3 since 
moving up from ﬂyweight to bantamweight, most recently losing a 
decision to Umar Nurmagomedov.
I’ve never been the biggest fan of Figgy and now that he’s 38 
years old, my opinions aren’t necessarily going to ﬂip.
I consider Figueiredo a dangerous ﬁnisher, with power in his 
hands, a capable submission game, and a lot of toughness and 
experience.
His lack of offense has generally killed my interest in him from an 
analytical sense though, and it’s one of the big reasons I was 
constantly betting against him when he was at ﬂyweight.
Figueiredo only lands 2.99 distance strikes per minute while 
absorbing 4.24 for a -1.26 ratio which is really bad. He defends 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

strikes at 49 percent. Although he’s shed the ﬁnish or bust 
moniker a bit, I’ve largely considered Figgy dependent on big 
moments and ﬁnishes for him to win ﬁghts because on a per-
minute level, he’s not extremely active.
Three of his four wins have actually come by decision since 
moving up to bantamweight, but they haven’t come against my 
favorite tier of opposition, including Rob Font, Marlon Vera and 
Montel Jackson. Figueiredo has been able to wrestle a bit in 
those ﬁghts, play a slow paced game, and do a little bit of 
damage. They are ﬁne wins.
However, when he’s fought the top tier of opposition, like 
Sandhagen, Yan and Umar, he’s generally been destroyed. I 
actually thought he defended the takedowns well against Umar 
last time out, and that gives me some pause, but he ultimately 
wasn’t able to produce any offense.
In this matchup, I have to favor Song moderately because he is 
the better athlete in his prime, he’s a more active and damaging 
striker, and he’s extremely durable, ﬁghting at home.
Yes, I have some issues with Song’s style, and I’m not convinced 
he dominates every second of this ﬁght. I respect Figueiredo 
enough to think he could land a big shot, jump on a guillotine, or 
win a slow paced round.
However, from a projection standpoint, even if this ﬁght went 5 
rounds, I’d honestly expect Figueiredo to land something like 
60-80 strikes, which is just not enough. He averages 1.61 
takedowns per 15 minutes and could possibly land a couple here, 
but I don’t think he does a whole lot with them.
Winning three rounds against Song seems like a tough ask, as 
does knocking him out or submitting him. I expect Song to be the 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

aggressor here, landing more often, having the better optics, with 
the crowd behind him.
I also think Song has more wrestling upside, despite his lack of 
historic success, we’ve seen Figueiredo look bad at times from 
his back. If Song starts to beat him up a bit and then gets on top 
of him, he could have success on top.
I’m not certain how likely Song is to win ITD, and the ﬁght is 
rightfully expected to extend, but a mid or late round ﬁnish for 
Song seems somewhat reasonable if he gets momentum early.
—
On DraftKings, Song is actually the most expensive ﬁghter on the 
board at 9.5k which gives me pause.
Primarily, we’ll see strong win projections for the knockout threats 
priced below him, and there’s a variety of pivots worth considering 
as well. Regardless, Song is in a spot where he must crush, and 
likely must also stand out from the rest of the range.
That doesn’t make me feel particularly conﬁdent, considering 
Song hasn’t ﬂashed an elite ceiling all that often. He’s won 11 
times in the UFC and has topped 108 DK points one time, with a 
few other results falling in that 105 point range. I’d be happy with 
105 points from Song, but is it a stand out at 9.5k? I’d guess not.
I was actually about to write that he hasn’t won many times in ﬁve 
round ﬁghts but he has won twice, and scored 107 and 103 in 
those bouts. The beneﬁt of ﬁve rounds gives Song a much 
stronger ﬂoor but doesn’t necessarily guarantee an elite ceiling.
The good news is that there are plenty of options in the mid-range 
this week to save salary, so we can pay up if we want. It’s 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

honestly not too difﬁcult to ﬁt Song in. However, it’s much tougher 
to ﬁt in Song + Pavlovich and therefore you may be forced to 
choose between the two.
I consider Song safer of the two, safer to win and score 105 
points. Pavlovich is probably more likely to score 110 though.
There’s no right or wrong answer here. In smaller ﬁelds and cash, 
I prefer paying up to Song I think. He has a variety of ways to 
score, and he can put up a reasonable result in a decision, early 
or mid-round ﬁnish. He’s -105 to win ITD.
In large ﬁelds, he’s not a true priority with the ﬁght projected to 
extend. I still like paying up when I have the salary available but 
Pavlovich and others are great options too, and leaving 
occasional money on the table makes sense.
Figueiredo is priced at 6.7k and I’m not super interested.
Yeah, he’s a talented guy for the price and I don’t think he’s 
completely out of the ﬁght, but Song is a tough matchup and 
Figgy is a big underdog. He’s +625 to win ITD.
I don’t think it’s crazy if you want to throw a few shares on Figgy 
in large ﬁelds, with a large portfolio. He’s a low-end secondary 
option by default with main event status. But there are many other 
dogs who I feel better about their win chances, and I’d rather pay 
up on the vast majority of my teams.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Song by TKO, RD 4 
(Conﬁdence=Medium-High)
Mingyang Zhang vs. Alonzo Meniﬁeld
Fight Odds: Zhang -240, Meniﬁeld +205

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Odds to end ITD: -600
DraftKings Salaries: Zhang 8.9k, Meniﬁeld 7.3k
Weight Class: 205
Coming off a disappointing main event loss in China to Johnny 
Walker, Mingyang Zhang will get a second chance to make a 
statement in front of his home crowd this weekend against Alonzo 
Meniﬁeld.
Zhang is now 19-7 professionally at age 27, and he’s earned 13 
wins by TKO and six by submission. If you’re keeping count, that 
means he’s never won by decision.
He’s also only lost once by decision, but he’s been KOd four 
times and submitted twice.
Zhang is the top LHW prospect out of China and I think he’s a 
decent athlete and competitor, but despite his run of success, it’s 
still difﬁcult to believe he’ll amount to much more than a kill or be 
killed type at the UFC level.
He’s been ﬁghting as a pro since 2014, and he’s obviously 
accrued a lot of experience in that time, with the bulk of his losses 
coming early in his career. He hadn’t lost since 2019 before falling 
against Walker in 2025.
But in that early time, he was ﬁnished quickly on several 
occasions. Askar Mozharov actually knocked him out in round one 
in 2018.
Zhang accrued a 12-ﬁght win streak, with all 12 of his wins ending 
in round one, which earned him the main event against Walker. 
Most of those wins came against horrible competition on the 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Chinese regional scene, and his UFC competition has been 
mediocre at best.
He made his UFC debut against Brendson Ribeiro, and was able 
to brutally knock him out in the ﬁrst round as well, after a few fun 
early exchanges. He also fought in Road to the UFC and won by 
KO in round one against Tokkos, where Zhang was actually the 
+450 dog. Zhang then knocked out Ozzy Diaz in two minutes.
Zhang also basically walked down Anthony Smith and beat him 
up for a ﬁrst round stoppage. Smith tried a couple of takedown 
attempts but was far too slow, and couldn’t take the damage.
Against Walker, Zhang had a ﬁne but slow paced round one 
before getting leg kicked to death in round two. It was one of 
those instances where nothing seems array, and then the ﬁght is 
just over. If your leg is compromised and you can’t stand, you’re 
dead. That’s why leg kicks are still among the most effective 
techniques in MMA today.
It was a disappointing loss considering how vulnerable Walker is, 
and deﬁnitely poses some further questions about Zhang. But to 
be fair, nobody is immune from leg kicks (other than those who 
can check them), so I’m not writing Zhang off either.
Overall, I think Zhang’s skills are decent. Zhang is an adequate 
boxer I would say. He moves well and carries some speed in his 
feet and in his hands.
I originally thought he’d be more willing to grapple, as many of his 
regional TKOs have come from ground-and-pound, and I still think 
that’s one of his stronger attributes. I saw some of his early ﬁghts 
where Zhang landed a quick takedown and pounded out his 
opponent, and I felt like those takedowns could translate to a 
higher level of competition.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

But it’s just tough to say for sure. It’s impossible to trust him 
outside of round one, but he doesn’t necessarily proﬁle as the 
type who would be exhausted after a few minutes. I haven’t seen 
him exhausted really, just knocked out cold.
Zhang does some training out of the PI, but he also trains at 
Xtreme Couture in Vegas with Sean Strickland and others, and 
Magomed Ankalaev in the past which I like. 
Ultimately, he’s a young, kill or be killed ﬁghter and that should be 
the expectation for now. But he’s starting to take real steps up in 
competition and will likely be pushed into the rankings sooner 
rather than later. I’m highly curious to see whether he can evolve 
past his current proﬁle.
Next up will be 38-year-old Alonzo Meniﬁeld, who’s had a very up 
and down UFC career that now spans nine years from his debut 
on DWCS in 2017.
Meniﬁeld is 17-6-1 with nine wins by knockout and four by 
submission. He was largely considered an early ﬁnisher or bust to 
begin his career, but his last three wins have actually come by 
decision which shows some evolutions in his game.
Meniﬁeld is bricked up physically and strength has always been 
his best attribute, which is both a positive and a negative. He 
carries ﬁght ending power, but he’s not necessarily able to sustain 
that power for a long time.
Although Meniﬁeld has picked up lots of experience and shed that 
narrative, I still don’t particularly trust him outside of early rounds. 
He’s been outlanded numerically in two of his three decision wins 
against Dustin Jacoby and Oumar Sy, and only outlanded Julius 
Walker 87-86.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In total, Meniﬁeld lands 3.77 sig strikes per minute while 
absorbing 3.81 per minute with a 50 percent defensive rate. He’s 
going to ﬁght competitively with most, but will rarely stand out 
unless he can land big damage.
Additionally, Meniﬁeld only lands 0.5 takedowns per 15 minutes 
so he’s essentially not a grappling threat unless he’s facing super 
weak competition. He defends at 78 percent and is OK in the 
clinch.
What concerns me the most is his losses. Meniﬁeld is coming off 
a KO loss to Volkan Oezdemir, and that’s now ﬁve losses in a row 
that he’s been knocked down, with four resulting in knockouts.
I don’t think Meniﬁeld has awful durability, but it’s clearly not great, 
and it just makes his game shaky overall. At best, Meniﬁeld can 
land early damage and hurt you, but he’s arguably just as likely to 
get KOd as he is to land damage himself. And if the ﬁght extends, 
it’s going to be a mid-paced, competitive striking affair at best.
As far as this matchup, I do think Zhang has more ﬁrepower, and 
is more likely to win by knockout. While he’s been knocked out 
himself too, the knockout losses are more concerning on the 
Meniﬁeld side.
The problem is, I still don’t think we can really trust Zhang outside 
of round one. And ﬁghting at home in China doesn’t mean much 
considering his only UFC loss came in China.
The good news is that Meniﬁeld doesn’t throw leg kicks and only 
lands them at 8.4 percent of his total, according to MMA Labs. 
Meniﬁeld is more experienced in extended ﬁghts though, and I 
think that gives him a legit path to victory.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Ultimately, I’m going to lean toward Zhang to get an early KO. 
He’s bigger and more aggressive, and has more purpose to his 
style. I do think he could compete with Meniﬁeld in latter rounds 
simply because Meniﬁeld doesn’t push a pace, but I wouldn’t be 
super conﬁdent.
Meniﬁeld also has some knockout equity by default. He’s powerful 
and Zhang has been hurt. Perhaps he’d even have a better 
chance to win by knockout in latter rounds. Otherwise, he can win 
a competitive, mid-paced, ugly clinching affair.
It’s tough to be very conﬁdent here but I’m willing to buy back on 
Zhang again as the more youthful and more powerful striker.
—
On DraftKings, this ﬁght is -600 to end inside the distance so it 
feels like a pretty good one to target.
Zhang is priced at 8.9k and I expect him to be chalky. Despite 
coming off the loss last time, he’s priced very well and has one of 
the best ITD lines on the slate at -225. Plus, Meniﬁeld has been 
KOd badly a few times recently, so the outcome is easy.
Zhang is boom or bust, obviously. He’s risky. It is what it is. He’s 
averaging 111 DK points per win and there’s a strong chance a 
win here comes in round one as well. Honestly, Zhang rates out 
as one of the best tournament plays on the slate in my mind.
I don’t think it’s wrong to prioritize a ﬁghter like Pavlovich, for 
example, ahead of Zhang. Nor is it wrong to be cautious with 
Zhang and pivot away for ownership purposes. But from a base 
outcome, Zhang is priced too cheaply for his win expectation and 
I’m happy to get moderate exposure.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Meniﬁeld is priced at 7.3k and I think you need exposure here as 
well.
I’m not going to rank Meniﬁeld highly because I’m not a huge fan 
of him, and I’m not picking him to win. It really doesn’t matter. 
Zhang has clear concerns outside of round one, plus some 
durability concerns, plus the variance. Plus the ownership and 
leverage you’ll get on Meniﬁeld.
At 7.3k, in a ﬁght that’s -600 to end inside the distance, this one is 
just obvious. Meniﬁeld is +325 to win ITD and is extremely boom 
or bust, but he’s worth a sprinkle given the situation. I won’t aim to 
be drastically above the ﬁeld but I think Meniﬁeld is a decent 
upside and leverage option for the price tag.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Zhang by TKO, RD 1 
(Conﬁdence=Medium-Low)
Sergei Pavlovich vs. Tallison Teixeira
Fight Odds: Pavlovich -600, Teixeira +425
Odds to end ITD: -600
DraftKings Salaries: Pavlovich 9.4k, Teixeira 6.8k
Weight Class: HW
Two ﬁghters with killer instinct in the HW division will square up as 
Sergei Pavlovich takes on Tallison Teixeira.
Pavlovich is 8-3 in the UFC with six wins by knockout, and 
coincidentally, those six knockouts all occurred in consecutive 
ﬁghts between 2019-2023 that led Pavlovich to a title shot against 
Tom Aspinall.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Unfortunately, Pavlovich fell short there and was brutally KOd in 1 
minute and 9 seconds. Since then, he’s actually fought to a 
decision three times in a row, losing to Alexander Volkov but 
beating Jair Rozenstruik and most recently Waldo Cortes-Acosta.
It’s an interesting resume, in part because 20 of Pavlovich’s 26 
pro ﬁghts have ended inside the distance, and for the majority of 
his UFC career, he was considered an early KO or bust type of 
striker.
However, after the KO loss to Aspinall, we’ve seen him go the 
distance in three consecutive ﬁghts, which I do think is beneﬁcial 
from the standpoint of allowing Pavlovich to maximize his career 
ceiling, but it also makes him a more tricky ﬁghter to analyze.
From a macro point of view, Pavlovich is a dangerous kickboxer. 
15 of his 20 wins have come by knockout and most have come in 
round one. He’s got legit power early in ﬁghts.
I’ve been skeptical of his ground game for a while because he did 
lose his UFC debut to Alistair Overeem, where he was taken 
down and beaten up to a TKO stoppage in the ﬁrst round. But that 
ﬁght was in 2018 and we have not seen him taken down since, so 
it’s tough to quantify.
Technically, I do like Pavlovich. He is landing 4.43 sig strikes per 
minute while absorbing 3.62 per minute with a 55 percent 
defensive rate. His volume is really nothing special and in his 
decisions, he’s only landed 61, 25 and 46 signiﬁcant strikes. He 
can be beaten on volume like we saw when Volkov bested him 
and doubled him up on strikes.
His most recent win over Cortes-Acosta was good though, and it 
was a more slow paced, technical affair where Pavlovich still 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

threatened with power. Cortes-Acosta is a solid opponent, and I 
ultimately think Pavlovich can hang with most in the division.
There’s just a high level of variance in his ﬁghts because they can 
end quickly, and if they don’t, the latter rounds will be a bit shaky. 
Pavlovich can also be hurt. He can be taken down. There’s too 
many question marks for me to be extremely conﬁdent in him but 
in general, Pavlovich rates out as a strong kickboxer in this 
division with plenty of early ﬁnishing equity.
He’ll be taking on Tallison Teixeira this weekend, who like 
Pavlovich, got KOd for the ﬁrst time in his career by Derrick Lewis 
in 2025 and suddenly became a wrestler after that, ﬁghting life or 
death with Tai Tuivasa to his ﬁrst career decision last time out.
Teixeira is 9-1 as a pro with 7 wins by TKO and 1 by submission, 
and his last ﬁght is the only time he’s seen a round two, let alone 
round three or a decision.
Teixeira is massive for the division at 6’7” and it’s a good thing his 
parents named him Tallison and not Shortison..
Anyways, Teixeira made his UFC debut in February 2025, and 
promptly knocked out Justin Tafa in just 35 seconds. He 
previously earned his contract with another quick ﬁnish on the 
Contender Series, knocking out his opponent in less than two 
minutes in a high-action affair. 
In that ﬁght, Teixeira actually ate a bunch of shots in those 
exchanges, and I deﬁnitely had longer term questions about his 
defense. He didn’t look super evasive, and although he didn’t 
react poorly to eating those shots, it did feel like a bigger hitter 
could potentially put him away.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

That’s what happened when Teixeira fought Lewis, who he still 
hurt immediately, but then got hurt himself following up for the 
ﬁnish. The ﬁght only lasted 35 seconds and I don’t want to make a 
huge deal out of it, but it’s pretty clear Texeiira is liable to be hurt 
himself.
Most recently, Teixeira wrestled aggressively against Tuivasa, 
taking him down three times on nine attempts for seven minutes 
of control. Both guys nearly had cardiac arrest toward the end of 
that matchup, and it was one of the things that prompted me to 
get on Sutherland against Tuivasa last time out.
I still do really like Teixeira’s offensive output and ability to inﬂict 
damage. Part of it does come down to his size as well. He’s 
massive and he’s powerful. I also think he’s technically solid 
offensively. He can throw the jab. He can throw leg kicks, and 
high kicks. He looks offensively potent to me and I think it’s pretty 
likely Teixeira can knock out most of the mid or even upper tiers of 
this heavyweight division on pure potency alone.
Like Pavlovich, there’s just a lot of variance in Teixeira’s ﬁghts. He 
can win ITD quickly, or he can be hurt and ﬁnished. He can 
wrestle some but he’s clearly not an exceptional round winner, 
and his cardio late in ﬁghts is suspect.
Because of that, this matchup is both simple and complex. 
Pavlovich is favored moderately because he’s a more technical 
striker, more defensively sound and more experienced. It seems 
likely that Pavlovich can either hurt Teixeira early, or outstrike him 
over three rounds.
With that said, Teixeira will still tower over Pavlovich, and we’ve 
already seen Pavlovich knocked out in a minute in the UFC. 
We’ve also seen Pavlovich badly outgrappled and ﬁnished the 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

last time he was taken down. I don’t really think Teixeira is 
capable of duplicating the Overeem performance, but I give him 
some chance of success if he ends up on top with any 
consistency.
Mostly, I’ve seen enough from Pavlovich to tell me he can ﬁght 
OK later in ﬁghts, whereas I do not trust Teixeira. I expect the 
biggest threat from Teixeira to come early, and if he doesn’t get a 
round one KO, I don’t think he will win at all.
I’m not willing to die on that hill necessarily because Pavlovich’s 
biggest threat will likely also come early. If the two just clash in the 
center of the Octagon in the ﬁrst few minutes, that’s a ﬁght I favor 
Pavlovich but not heavily.. Teixeira could absolutely score an early 
knockout.
I think Pavlovich is more likely to land cleanly though, and 
especially so as rounds progress, so I favor him to win this ﬁght. I 
probably wouldn’t line it as heavily in his favor as the public does 
though, just given the high-variance nature of striking exchanges.
—
On DraftKings, this is a pretty standard high upside and high risk 
HW spot.
Like the ﬁght above, this one is -600 to end inside the distance 
and the winner will have a strong win expectation. Unlike the ﬁght 
above, this ﬁght is costly to roster.
Pavlovich is priced at 9.4k and he’s -300 to win ITD. He’s 
averaging 106 DK points per win, and that includes his decisions 
which scored 55 and 85. If he gets a ﬁrst round KO, the 
expectation is closer to 110.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The issue, of course, is that winning by knockout in round one is 
not as easy as it sounds. Especially as Pavlovich has now gone 
the distance twice in a row, and Teixeira just fought to a decision, I 
do not think this ﬁght ending in round one is a guarantee. 
Pavlovich is +105 to win in round one.
I do think Pavlovich winning by RD 1 KO is among the more likely 
outcomes of the matchup though, and therefore 110 points is 
pretty reasonable. He could be optimal at that number, but it’s 
also potentially the chance he has to be optimal.
I consider Song safer than Pavlovich outright, and I think Zhang is 
a better play for the price. I think Haddon, Asakura, Tsuruya as 
examples are good pivots. You really don’t have to play Pavlovich.
If I can afford him though, I still do want exposure. I think it’s OK if 
you want to prioritize him straight up over Song, and if you really 
feel conﬁdent here, you can force him into builds. He has the best 
ITD line on the slate so it’s not a bad spot to invest.
This is just a boom/bust matchup at a big price tag, and so there 
are many different ways to go about it. I will likely end up with 
moderate exposure to Pavlovich, but I won’t be afraid to pivot 
away or start my lineups in the mid 9s if I can’t afford him.
Teixeira is priced at 6.8k, and I think he’s in play.
I’ve gone back and forth on whether he’s a good play, or just a 
viable play. It seems like most people are very conﬁdent in 
Pavlovich this week. I get it, but there’s just so much variance in 
striking exchanges.
If you really think Pavlovich is -600 to win as the odds indicate, 
then I don’t think Teixeira is a great option. He’s still a viable, 
boom/bust target with upside and leverage, but I wouldn’t be 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

excited. If perhaps the odds are wrong, then Teixeira is a good 
play who is likely to be optimal in a win and set you apart from the 
ﬁeld.
He is only +425 to win ITD but at low public ownership, I still like 
mixing him in. Perhaps he’s only worthy of dart throw 
consideration but I do think he’s offensively potent enough to give 
him a shot in this kind of ﬁght. I wouldn’t mind being slightly above 
the ﬁeld myself, though I still like paying up when I have the ability 
to do so.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Pavlovich by TKO, RD 1 
(Conﬁdence=Medium)
Kai Asakura vs. Cameron 
Smotherman
Fight Odds: Asakura -290, Smotherman +245
Odds to end ITD: -170
DraftKings Salaries: Asakura 9k, Smotherman 7.2k
Weight Class: 135
*Matchup analysis written by Gordon Clark
The ﬁght night continues as former ﬂyweight title challenger Kai 
Asakura moves up in weight to take on Cameron Smotherman. 
Let’s dive in.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Kai Asakura was catapulted into the rankings when he signed with 
the UFC last year, as he was immediately slotted in for a ﬂyweight 
title shot against Alexandre Pantoja. 
Asakura was no stranger to top level competition, as he went 13-3 
in RIZIN and was the champion of that promotion on multiple 
occasions. With wins on his record over Manel Kape and Kyoji 
Horiguchi, amongst others, the expectations for Kai were high to 
start with the promotion. Unfortunately, it wasn’t the best start, as 
he was submitted by Pantoja in his debut and lost his sophomore 
bout to Tim Elliott last August. Now, at 32 years old, the 21-6 
Japanese ﬁghter moves back up to 135 and looks for his ﬁrst UFC 
victory. 
Asakura is a quick, powerful boxer who is built on moments. He is 
currently only averaging 2.27 strikes landed per minute in the 
UFC and his lower volume style can hold him back at times, but 
when he connects, he hits very hard. He has a 73% ﬁnish rate 
with 13 KOs and 2 submissions. He has big shots and explosive 
knees that can put your lights out.
You may think his grappling is extremely deﬁcient as that’s how 
he’s lost his ﬁrst two UFC bouts, but those are the only 
submission losses on his record. He has a pretty solid ﬁrst level of 
takedown defense and can scramble up well, but he gives up his 
back in transition and there has been a blueprint at this level to 
succeed with takedowns. 
Asakura has now been ﬁnished in 5/6 pro losses. Yes, they came 
against good competition and I wouldn’t call him chinny per se, 
but you can deﬁnitely hurt and ﬁnish this guy. Despite his lack of 
volume and minute winning, he is 5-1 to the decision and his 
moments on the feet are typically enough to sway the judges.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

He throws with bad intentions and can put anyone’s lights out. 
That’ll be the idea for Asakura. Go out there, look to win moments 
and hunt the ﬁnish. He has great power and incredible speed and 
when he’s on his game, he can look like a true prospect, although 
I would like him to shore up that volume at this level. 
Overall, Asakura is a solid prospect with great power and ﬁnishing 
ability although he has struggled to ﬁnd his footing in the UFC, 
and we’ve seen low volume and poor ground scrambles hold him 
back so far.
Cameron Smotherman looks to get back in the win column this 
weekend as the 28 year old has dropped his last two inside the 
Octagon. He actually dropped his Contender Series bout in 2023, 
where he lost via KO to Grigoriou and fell short of his UFC goal. 
He managed to get some more regional wins and sign with the 
UFC on short notice in October of 2024, where he pulled off a 
quite impressive upset of Jake Hadley. Since then, he has 
struggled with the grappling and pace of Sirhey Sidey and Ricky 
Simon, but survived to decision against both and even won a 
round on a judges scorecard in both. 
Smotherman is a boxer. He’s got solid length, a good jab and 
decent footwork. If he gets the ﬁght he wants, he will to back you 
up with his pressure and land straight shots from range. He’s got 
solid cardio and can win optics on the feet, and is currently 
landing 4.07 strikes per minute. He isn’t the most dangerous 
boxer, with a 58% ﬁnish rate split between 6 KOs and 1 sub, but 
can look to overwhelm you if you aren’t on his level. 
However, there are some concerns about Smotherman. The ﬁrst 
is the ground game. Although he has a 62% TDD, he has been 
taken down 8 times in his last two bouts and given up over 9 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

minutes and 4 minutes of control in those bouts. He can be taken 
down and held down and although he has never been submitted, 
it’s tough to win minutes off your back. 
The other issue for Smotherman is durability. I really just don’t 
know how good or bad it is. Sometimes it holds up well and he 
can walk forward, but he has now been KO’d in round one twice 
now, once in 60 seconds and also in 13 seconds on the regional 
scene. I mean being out cold to Charalampos Grigoriou and CJ 
Jimenez (now 5-6) is not the best look. 
We also have to acknowledge that Smotherman did have a viral 
weigh-in moment, as he fainted and hit his head pretty badly back 
in January. Whether that’s a weight cut related issue or something 
else, you never want to see that. It was a pretty scary look and I 
hope he has that ﬁgured out, because it’s not something you want 
to see happening with weight cuts. 
Overall, Smotherman can look really good when he gets his game 
going. His pace, range boxing and output will help him win 
minutes and he has a solid frame at this division to get his 
punches off. But with struggles on the ground and durability, he’s 
a tough ﬁghter to back as he can lose moments if he’s hurt, lose 
minutes in the grappling or just be put out cold (by punches or 
weight cuts, apparently). 
Smotherman can have success but I would prefer to back him in 
bouts where he is able to stick to his game plan, until he shores 
up that ground game and/or durability. 
At the end of the day, we have to acknowledge this is a big step 
down in competition for Asakura. There’s no hiding that I’m 
historically lower on Smotherman than the ﬁeld. I was actually 
picking Turcios to beat him, before he was KO’d by the scale in 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

January. Although he does have solid volume and minute winning 
boxing, I don’t see him as the biggest power threat and he needs 
his opponent to play his range boxing game for him to have 
success. If you can wrestle, you can beat him. If you have power, 
you can knock him out. Even from range, he’s lost multiple 
decisions and can lose optics due to moments. 
So yes, I’m picking Asakura here. I think it’s a large step down in 
comp, Asakura will have the speed edge and ﬁnishing upside and 
frankly, I just don’t love Smotherman’s game. But the truth is, this 
isn’t as much of a smash matchup for Kai as I thought it was pre-
tape. Although I think Kai ﬁnds the chin with his speed and power, 
if he doesn’t it could get greasy. 
Kai will play Smotherman’s game from range and engage in 
boxing from the outside. If that’s the case, Kai does lack volume 
and I wouldn’t be all too surprised to see Smotherman get ahead 
on the scorecards with volume. However, I still have to pick 
Asakura to win because of his power, speed, level of competition 
and durability edge, maybe even able to mix in takedowns if he so 
pleases. So give me Asakura, but I would hope he ﬁnds the chin if 
I’m to back him at this price tag
—
On DraftKings, I view Asakura as a pretty volatile but potentially 
sneaky target.
He’s priced at 9k, and coming off back-to-back poor losses, I 
really doubt the ﬁeld prioritizes him in any way. Especially with 
Zhang, Pavlovich and Song in the same range, I think Asakura 
could potentially be semi-contrarian.
I understand why. It’s not simply that he lost to Pantoja or Elliott 
but he just did not look like he was on the same level of those 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

guys. Smotherman is a completely different matchup but Asakura 
is moving up in weight and Smotherman is a capable striker.
The reality is, Asakura needs an early knockout to hit. At 9k, I’m 
never going to be super excited by it. However, Zhang and 
Pavlovich ﬁt that same mold, though they are more likely to hit, 
they don’t necessarily carry much wider windows than Asakura 
does.
Asakura is -105 to win ITD which is OK, though it’s not on the 
same level as those other names mentioned, and it’s partially why 
he won’t be as owned.
I don’t think Asakura is some phenomenal play. Knockouts are so 
hard to predict. However, he is a dangerous striker, Smotherman 
has been KOd early before, and he’s coming off that weird weight 
cut issue. An early KO for Asakura is reasonable.
Considering we could get Asakura in the teens ownership, I think 
he’s a pretty strong contrarian option. I’m not going to be super 
aggressive here but I can understand the strategy behind coming 
in overweight and/or pivoting onto him off some of the other 
chalky targets nearby.
Smotherman is priced at 7.2k and I think he’s a viable option as 
well.
Clearly, I’d feel better about targeting him if he could wrestle, but 
we can’t count on that. And yes, Asakura has better wins than 
Smotherman. Asakura has also been knocked out by both Kape 
and Horiguchi. I’m not completely sold on him in the UFC.
I view Smotherman as a low expectation, variance based punt. 
He’s super cheap so it’s not a massive risk to play him a bit. He 
very likely gets the ﬁght he wants, where he could land a random 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

shot or win on volume. Not all of those outcomes score well but I 
wouldn’t be shocked if he won.
Smotherman is only +400 to win ITD so I don’t think you can 
really rely on this play, but if you need a punt below the mid 7s, I 
think Smotherman has some low-end viability.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Smotherman by Decision 
(Conﬁdence=Low)
Jake Matthews vs. Carlston Harris
Fight Odds: Matthews -350, Harris +285
Odds to end ITD: -175
DraftKings Salaries: Matthews 9.2k, Harris 7k
Weight Class: 170
*Matchup analysis written by Technical Tim
We have a middle class matchup here in the welterweight division 
between Jake Matthews and Carlston Harris.
Matthews is a decent striker. He lands 3.34 signiﬁcant strikes per 
minute, which is not very high, so I do worry about his volume to a 
degree. However, he only absorbs 2.62 signiﬁcant strikes per 
minute and defends strikes at 60 percent. So although he is not 
landing a lot, he is still landing more than he absorbs and has a 
decent striking ratio.
Matthews is kind of weird on the feet. He has some pop, but he 
kind of just stays out of range and then springs in to land his 
strikes. His constant staying out of range striking style is one of 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

the main reasons why not many strikes are landed in his ﬁghts. 
He kind of just limits engagements in general. 
Even though his striking style is a bit strange, I still consider him a 
competent striker. I did think the Matthew Semelsberger ﬁght was 
concerning though. Matthews was knocked down 3 times and 
clearly struggled with the physicality and power of Semelsberger. 
Still though, Matthews is a ﬁne striker and he also has a little bit of 
power himself.
Matthews is also a BJJ black belt and a competent grappler. 
Matthews lands 1.44 takedowns per 15 minutes, which is decent, 
so he can string some takedowns together. He is competent at 
riding top position, but I don’t expect him to outwrestle above-
average grapplers at welterweight. He has won by submission 7 
times in the UFC but mostly against weak competition.
Matthews is a decent defensive grappler. He defends takedowns 
at 64 percent and can scramble up decently well. He was badly 
outwrestled by Sean Brady and has been outgrappled in other 
losses as well. He lost by third round submission in his most 
recent ﬁght against Neil Magny which was concerning. So I do 
think he will continue to have issues against above average-
grapplers in this division. However, I don’t expect it to be a huge 
liability against the mid to lower tier ﬁghters of this division.
Matthews will be taking on Carlston Harris. Harris is from Guyana 
and racked up a decently impressive record on the regional scene 
beating some decent guys like Michel Pereira and Wellington 
Turman. 
Harris then came to the UFC and is 4-3 with ﬁrst round ﬁnishes 
against Christian Aguilera and Impa Kasanganay. He hurt 
Aguilera on the feet and then submitted him and he knocked 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Kasanganay out. He then got knocked out by Rahmanov and 
dominantly beat Jared Gooden in a 3 round decision. Since then 
he has submitted Jeremiah Wells, but was knocked out in his last 
two losses against Khaos Williams and Santiago Ponzinibbio.
I don’t consider Harris a great technical striker, but I do think he is 
somewhat dangerous. He is somewhat athletic, and has power. 
He springs in and out of range well, understands distance to a 
degree, and can time his shots well. He also will counter 
opponents who spring into range. I don’t think Harris is a guy who 
will outland technical strikers on the feet though, but I think he is 
at least live to hurt people on the feet and I will never completely 
rule out his chances on the feet because of his ability to hurt 
people. He is at least aggressive too which I like. 
He is still just not very technical though and has gotten knocked 
out badly in his last two matchups. He is also 38 years old so I am 
just a little concerned.
Harris is actually mostly a grappler and will go to that path when 
he has a grappling advantage. He kind of reminds me of Alan 
Patrick. He is tall and lanky and he isn’t a super technical wrestler, 
but he is very tenacious and willing to wrestle. Like Patrick, I don’t 
think he will go out there and outwrestle good wrestlers. Even 
Aguilera shrugged off a lot of Harris’ wrestling until Harris hurt 
him. However, Harris will absolutely melt weak grapplers. He 
wrecked Jared Gooden on the mat and landed 5 takedowns. 
Harris has a decent double leg, decent clinch takedowns, and can 
take advantage of front chokes in transitions. He really likes going 
to the clinch, getting a body lock and just holding his opponents 
as well. He also has okay cardio, can ﬁght hard and isn’t at risk to 
gas.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Harris defends takedowns at 55 percent and was mostly 
outwrestled by Jeremiah Wells. However, he seems to have 
decent takedown defense and my guess is that he can work up if 
taken down against most guys. I was impressed with his TDD 
against Rakhmonov. He defended most takedowns against him 
and impressively scrambled up the one time he was taken down.
As far as this matchup goes, I suppose either guy can take the 
other down. Both guys are decent offensive wrestlers and both 
guys are okay defending takedowns but not perfect. My guess is 
that the wrestling will generally cancel out though and get 
neutralized. I feel like either guy can probably defend takedowns 
or scramble up. I feel like someone will have success on the mat 
if the other guy is hurt or fatigued more than anything.
Since the grappling will probably neutralize to a degree, I think the 
striking is important here. I just trust Matthews as a striker more. I 
think Matthews is a more technical striker, he is seven years 
younger and I trust his durability more as well. I also think 
Matthews is better defensively. So my guess is Matthews is a little 
better on the feet and skates to a decision. I also think Matthews 
has a realistic chance at a KO too given the recent KOs Harris 
has suffered.
I still don’t always trust Matthews. He ﬁnds ways to lose and I do 
think there is variance here. Harris is somewhat dangerous with 
his power on the feet and front choke submissions. So Harris 
ﬁnding a way to have moments or ﬁnish Matthews really wouldn’t 
surprise me. Overall though, I think it is pretty clear Matthews is a 
more technical striker and the ﬁght likely extends on the feet at 
times. So Matthews is the pick.
—

--- PAGE BREAK ---

On DraftKings, I view Matthews as a very viable pivot within this 
top range but I honestly don’t know how often I can click on him.
There are two things that bug me here. The ﬁrst is that Matthews 
is historically inconsistent, and I just never feel safe with him. He 
ﬁnds ways to lose, which includes his last ﬁght where he literally 
won by submission and still lost. Yes, you heard that correctly.
The other more important thing is that Matthews has never really 
shown a top level ceiling. He is averaging 89 DK points per win 
but in his last 12 wins, he’s only topped 100 points ONCE. That 
was a score of 102. That includes ﬁve wins inside the distance.
So yeah, Matthews can box. He can win by knockout. He can 
wrestle, and he can win by submission. He’s -105 to win ITD 
which is OK. I don’t fully trust him to do it, and even if he does win 
ITD, he still has to contend with other big names on this slate.
I’m just really worried that Matthews scores like 97 in a second 
round win, or 103 in a ﬁrst round win, and misses the optimal 
because Pavlovich scores 115. I don’t think Matthews will be 
super popular at this price which is why I do view him as a viable 
pivot, but I’m not dying to prioritize him outright.
Harris is priced at 7k and is a ﬁne punt.
What it comes down to is that Matthews blows ﬁghts. He’s been 
submitted a few times and knocked out as well. Harris is 
dangerous enough that I could see something random happening.
The problem is that Matthews is better than Harris everywhere. I 
don’t see any area where Harris is really at an advantage, so it 
mostly comes down to variance which I don’t love.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Also, Matthews doesn’t absorb a ton of offense so I’m not sold 
Harris would be scoring a ton of points before the ﬁnish. Matthews 
has lost and allowed 85, 63, etc.
Harris is +400 to win ITD. Obviously if he wins ITD, you’re going 
to want some exposure. At the price tag, he’s a viable low-end 
play. I personally lean against targeting him too often though as I 
just don’t love the matchup, and I’d rather pay up a bit more for 
better opportunities.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Matthews by Decision 
(Conﬁdence=Medium)
Alex Perez vs. Sumudaerji
Fight Odds: Perez -143, Sumudaerji +123
Odds to end ITD: -125
DraftKings Salaries: Perez 8.5k, Sumudaerji 7.7k
Weight Class: 125
*Matchup analysis written by Technical Tim
We have an interesting ﬁght here as former title challenger Alex 
Perez will be taking on Sumudaerji.
I like Perez. He is a well-rounded ﬁghter who is capable of 
winning rounds and ﬁghts in a variety of ways. The issue with 
Perez is he has had long layoffs so often as he has had multiple 
knee injuries. So sometimes it is just hard to know what form 
Perez will be in. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

However, Perez has been ﬁghting often against great competition 
and getting wins here and there, and his losses have been to the 
best ﬂyweights in the world. So he is clearly still capable. He is 
coming off a ﬁrst round knockout win against Charles Johnson 
which was impressive.
Perez excels as a wrestler. He lands 2.21 takedowns per 15 
minutes and lands takedowns at 48 percent. I quite like his chain 
wrestling and shots. He has a nasty single leg and double leg and 
can also ride well in top position. 
Perez hasn’t wrestled as often in some ﬁghts, but it is because he 
has been ﬁghting elite grapplers. His ﬁghts that have extended 
have come against Pantoja, Mokaev, Nicolau, Taira, and 
Almabayev. He still averaged a takedown per ﬁght in those ﬁghts 
too. Those aren’t ﬁghts I would expect him to be able to freely 
wrestle either. 
When Perez had more wrestling friendly ﬁghts against Jordan 
Espinosa and Mark De La Rosa, he went to the wrestling 
immediately and dominated. He took De La Rosa down a few 
times and controlled him for most of the ﬁght. He took Espinosa 
down and submitted him easily. When Perez fought Formiga, he 
knew he needed to strike and didn’t even attempt a takedown. I 
tend to think Perez knows when he needs to wrestle or strike 
which is good.
Perez also has good takedown defense at 75 percent and is 
rarely ever stuck in bottom position.  He defended 17 of 20 
takedowns against Muhammad Mokaev which was super 
impressive.
Perez has offensive submission ability as well and is capable of 
anaconda / front headlock chokes as well as arm triangles. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Perez has been submitted a few times in his career. However, 
only three submission losses have come in the last six years, 
against Fig, Pantoja, and Almabayev who are dangerous, so I 
don’t think his submission defense is a major liability. However, it 
makes me nervous to a degree.
Perez is also a decent striker. He lands 4.41 signiﬁcant strikes per 
minute and absorbs 3.20. He lands strikes at 46 percent and 
defends at a decent 59 percent. His numbers are good and he is 
solid, but I do think his striking numbers are skewed to a degree. 
He landed 84 signiﬁcant strikes on Jose Torres in 3:46 of ﬁghting 
(which honestly may be some type of record) and a lot of the 
strikes landed were when Torres was clearly compromised from 
already being hurt. 
Furthermore, Perez has also landed a decent amount of ground 
strikes. So I don’t think he is quite as good of a striker as his 
numbers indicate. I mean he was outlanded by Eric Shelton and 
Benavidez at distance. I also think Perez’s volume has lacked in 
his recent ﬁghts as well. I feel like he could have thrown more 
against Mokaev and Nicolau.
However, Perez is still formidable as a striker and he also has 
power on the feet and very good calf kicks. You saw his power vs 
Johnson.
Perez will be taking on Sumudaerji. Sumudaerji is legitimately one 
of the worst grapplers in the UFC. It is very rare to see a ﬁghter in 
the lower weight classes this bad on the mat. He is absolutely 
awful when he is grounded and gives up advances of positions, 
and can be pummeled with ground-and-pound or submitted 
easily.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I do think Sumudaerji has some decent ﬁrst layer takedown 
defense though. He defends takedowns at 62 percent and can 
defend some tds here and there. When he gives up a takedown 
though, he is just awful on the mat.
To be fair though, I did see at least some improvement in 
Sumudaerji’s scrambling against Mitch Raposo. Mudaerji was 
taken down 6 times on 19 attempts but he worked up a little better 
and was only controlled for 4 minutes. He actually started giving 
up his back against Raposo and doing a classic wrestler stand up 
which is good, and it shows he learned something. His defensive 
wrestling has deﬁnitely gotten much better but I still think it is 
exploitable.
Sumudaerji is a solid striker. He is tall at 5’8” which is huge for this 
division. He also ﬁghts long and controls range well, ﬁghting out of 
the southpaw stance. He has a piston left hand and is very 
accurate and powerful with it. He also has a good kicking game. 
He can hurt people on the feet in this division. He lands 4.43 
signiﬁcant strikes per minute and absorbs 2.35 in return. He can 
continue to win striking ﬁghts in this division.
I do think Sumudaerji has suspect durability though. He has been 
hurt a few times in the UFC now and even Matt Schnell was 
hurting him badly on the feet.
As far as this matchup goes, Sumudaerji is capable of winning 
this. If the ﬁght stays standing, I think Sumudaerji is the better 
round winning striker and ﬁghts much longer. My guess is 
Sumudaerji can strike at distance and skate to a decision using 
his long range tools from the outside if this ﬁght stays standing. 
Perez does have tendencies to strike as well. So if Perez doesn’t 
wrestle or Mudaerji stops any wrestling that comes his way, 
Sumudaerji will likely be victorious this weekend. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I am leaning against a knockout though. Perez gets ﬁnished often 
but it almost never comes from knockout. If the ﬁght stays 
standing, I think Sumudaerji by decision is most likely.
However, I tend to think Perez is going to wrestle here. He shoots 
about 5 takedowns per ﬁght but he completely changes his game 
plan depending on who he is ﬁghting. Any extremely wrestling 
friendly ﬁght, he has wrestled hard and I expect him to wrestle 
here. I do think Perez will mix in some strikes and I actually think 
he could land something big here. However, Perez needs to 
wrestle to win and I expect him to wrestle.
As far as the wrestling goes, Sumudaerji has improved 
defensively, but I think Perez is a far better wrestler than Raposo. 
Perez has a dirty single leg and he is also a great rider of the 
back and uses some folkstyle wrestling techniques from that 
position (watch the De La Rosa ﬁght) that I think will confuse 
Sumudaerji. Perez also has a heavy top game and I just think he 
will be a little too much for Sumudaerji on the mat. I actually think 
Perez is going to ﬁnish Sumudaerji on the mat.
I will say that Sumudaerji has attempted some decent 
submissions lately and Perez is vulnerable to subs (although 
against elite grapplers) so don’t be shocked if there is a close 
submission attempt for Sumudaerji. However, my guess is Perez 
will ﬁght it off.
All in all though, I think this is a ﬁght Perez can show his wrestling 
game which he has not been able to highlight for a long time 
given his matchups recently.
—
On DraftKings, it’s a classic Alex Perez ﬁght which I ﬁnd nearly 
impossible to call.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I have probably been one of Perez’ biggest supporters since he 
entered the UFC, but man I have paid for it. He’s cleanly beating 
guys like Taira and Almabayev, before getting ﬁnished in the mid-
rounds. He’s beating the crap out of guys like Charles Johnson 
and Matheus Nicolau.
Perez has just been so inconsistent, which is the problem. He is a 
strong boxer with ﬁght ending ability. He throws nasty leg kicks. 
He can wrestle. His Fight IQ has been questionable and his 
submission defense has been questionable, among other things. 
He can’t stay healthy.
At his best, Perez could be champion of this division. It’s been 
impossible for him to string together good wins consistently.
In this matchup, I have some hope for Perez. I think there are 
outcomes where he takes Sumudaerji down, beats him up and 
ﬁnishes him for a massive score. He could also choose not to 
wrestle.
I’m not going to pretend I’m conﬁdent in Perez winning this ﬁght 
but I do see fantasy upside in his style. He is averaging 106 DK 
points per win which is crazy, and he’s topped 120 three times.
In this ﬁght, Perez is only +175 to win ITD which is mediocre. The 
good news is that I really don’t think a striking based decision win 
makes sense for him. Wrestling or damage have to be in play, 
which boosts his ﬂoor and ceiling.
I consider Perez a decent upside target in the mid range at 8.5k. I 
don’t think you have to be high on him this week, as there are 
paths for him to fail for sure. He’s shown one of the better ceilings 
on the slate though, in a matchup where Sumudaerji has given up 
100 or more DK points in three of his four UFC losses.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I’ll have moderate exposure to Perez by default. He’ll project well 
in a win, and he’s priced nicely. I wouldn’t say he’s particularly 
safe though.
Sumudaerji is priced at 7.7k and is more knockout dependent 
which is tricky. Although I think of Perez as being vulnerable and 
losing ITD, he’s really never been knocked out. He’s been hurt 
from a headbutt and he’s torn up his knee, but those are his two 
TKO losses. He’s never suffered a knockdown.
Because Sumudaerji isn’t an elite sub grappler and doesn’t 
wrestle a ton, I do view him as somewhat dependent on a 
knockout. If Perez can’t grapple though, maybe his historic 
shortcomings lead to another random ITD loss here too.
Sumudaerji is +300 to win ITD which isn’t particularly good. His 
ﬂoor is really weak and his ceiling is questionable. I don’t consider 
him a priority.
There is some merit to mixing in Su as a secondary target just 
given how Perez loses ITD all the time, but I think a 60 strike 
decision is deﬁnitely on the table as well. I lean against forcing in 
lots of exposure to Sumudaerji but I do think there are some 
outcomes where he scores well, and he’s a viable low-end mix-in 
if your portfolio is big enough.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Perez by Anaconda, RD 2 
(Conﬁdence=Low)
UNDERCARD
Luis Felipe Dias vs. Yi Sak Lee
Fight Odds: Dias -172, Lee +147

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Odds to end ITD: -200
DraftKings Salaries: Dias 8.6k, Lee 7.6k
Weight Class: 185
Two questionable newcomers in Luis Felipe Dias and Yi Sak Lee 
step into the Octagon on Saturday for the ﬁrst time.
Dias is 16-5 professionally at age 31, and he’s earned seven wins 
by knockout and eight by submission. He’s coming off a 
submission win on the Contender Series in October.
I don’t think particularly highly of Dias. He’s a muscled up grappler 
with some ﬁnishing ability, but I don’t think his process is 
particularly strong.
Dias is a black belt in jiu-jitsu and I suppose that’s his biggest 
strength. He looked pretty decent in taking the back on DWCS 
where he ultimately found the ﬁnish, and a few of his recent wins 
have come by RNC.
But I don’t think Dias is incredibly strong on the mat. I’ve seen him 
mounted, I’ve seen him armbarred, and he’ll do things like go 
after leg locks from the bottom which can get you into trouble.
Additionally, his wrestling isn’t strong. He doesn’t dive through 
takedowns very well so he’ll often end up stuffed or on the bottom 
when he shoots. His takedown defense isn’t very strong in 
general either, and he was taken down a couple of times on 
DWCS.
I do like that he’s putting more effort into offensive takedowns 
though, and he landed four on DWCS. They were mostly body 
lock takedowns which he was converting into back takes. It’s a 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ﬁne recipe for success, but I think largely will beneﬁt him against 
weaker competition.
On the feet, Dias throws hard and has power, but his technique is 
a little off. He reaches on punches and he’s kind of slow 
defensively, so he can be tagged. He’s been hurt a few times and 
KOd twice, both times in round three. He throws some hard leg 
kicks which is nice.
The good news is that he’s experienced and has been competing 
as a pro since 2017, so he’s arguably in his prime now. He’s 
leveled up over the years, and he’s also juiced up his physical 
build substantially.
At his current state, I think Dias is OK. This is the middleweight 
division so it doesn’t take much to be successful, and Dias has 
some ability to grapple with physicality, and throw power punches.
I ultimately don’t love his wrestling enough to think he can make 
work of good competition, and his striking defense is suspect as 
well. My best guess is he can beat some weak grapplers and 
have some early success in ﬁghts, but his success will be capped 
to the mid-tier of the division.
He’ll be taking on Yi Sak Lee who is 8-1 professionally at age 26, 
and has earned four wins by knockout and three by submission.
Lee trains out of Korean Top Team, but he seems like a random 
regional addition to the roster as his quality of competition has 
been pretty mediocre.
Supposedly he has a background in Judo, but I’m not too sure 
what standout skills he carries. A lot of his early wins are taking 
guys down, mounting them and beating them up. His back taking 
game looks OK, and some of his takedowns are ﬁne.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The primary issue is that we don’t have a lot of tape on Lee, but I 
did watch his most recent loss in 2024 which is pretty concerning. 
He lost to a 12-9 guy named Aglian Thanigasalam who kind of 
looks like a worse version of Dias.
In that ﬁght, Lee was taken down a handful of times in the ﬁrst 
round, but he popped up pretty well.  He stuffed some shots, and 
he forced striking exchanges. His boxing looked kind of weak 
though, and what really stood out to me was how massive this 
guy’s head is. Like, he has a very hittable face unfortunately.
Both he and his opponent were tired by the end of round one, and 
then in round two, Lee was taken down, gave up his back and 
was choked out. Since that loss, he’s picked up a couple of subs 
on the regional scene against 2-3 and 5-2 opponents.
My best guess is that Lee can beat low level grapplers, and that’s 
about it. He is surely tough as most Koreans are, but he also 
looks super hittable and I worry about his striking defense. 
Outside of random power, it would be hard for me to trust Lee on 
the feet.
On the mat, perhaps he’s OK. His early grappling defense 
seemed decent enough so I don’t think one takedown attempt 
against him will be the end of the ﬁght. He can also land some 
takedowns of his own, where his top sub game is ﬁne.
Losing to that random dude in 2024 and getting choked out wasn’t 
a great look though, and it’s pretty hard for me to be conﬁdent in 
him having any real success at the UFC level. He’s only 26 years 
old though so perhaps he’s improving.
In this matchup, I have to favor Dias who is more physical and 
more experienced. The primary thing to give me pause is that 
Dias isn’t a great defensive wrestler, so maybe Lee has a real 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

path to victory taking him down. We’ve even seen Dias mounted 
and subbed. So I wouldn’t rule anything out.
However, Dias should be more physical and is probably the better 
grappler outright. I worry his offensive wrestling isn’t good enough 
to dominate, but he has similar upside to what we saw on DWCS, 
landing some takedowns and transitioning to the back where a 
RNC is possible.
On the feet, I think Dias is more dangerous. He throws with more 
power and I’d guess he’s more durable at this point. I wouldn’t be 
surprised if he won by knockout, or hurt Lee early. I’m skeptical of 
Lee facing adversity ultimately.
I suppose I am picking Dias to win here, after some ugly early 
exchanges. It’s hard to be conﬁdent in any one aspect but I just 
don’t trust Lee to ﬁght out of much adversity for multiple rounds. I 
think he could hurt Dias early or take him down, and perhaps if his 
cardio has drastically improved, he has a decision chance. That’s 
hard to bet on.
I think Dias likely wears on him enough to get a mid-round 
stoppage, but I’m not sold he’ll run away with the ﬁght in the ﬁrst 
round and Lee might be able to put up some resistance.
—
On DraftKings, I suppose I want to target this ﬁght as it could be 
messy and could end inside the distance.
Dias is priced at 8.6k and he’s my preferred target. He has some 
early ﬁnishing equity and could land takedowns. He’s +115 to win 
ITD which is ﬁne but not spectacular.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

He’ll ultimately fall into the boom or bust category since if he 
doesn’t get a ﬁnish, I highly doubt he accrues enough points to be 
optimal. But these ﬁghters are so low level that I’m hopeful we’ll 
see scoring take place.
There’s no reason to be conﬁdent here, but I like the hectic nature 
of the matchup, and I think Dias is a very strong mid-range option 
who can ﬂash upside in a ﬁnish. I’d be happy to come in 
overweight if the ﬁeld is scared off.
Lee is priced at 7.6k and the reality is if he wins, he’s probably 
scoring well.
Lee is +260 to win ITD and I guess a win for him would come ITD. 
And it could come via grappling. He can deﬁnitely score 100 
points, and he’s not a big underdog.
I am pretty sure Lee sucks, so I’m not dying to target him 
necessarily. I don’t think he’s clearly the best target within this 
range. But he does have upside in a low-level, high-variance ﬁght, 
so I’m willing to mix him in as a secondary target and move on 
with my life.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Dias by RNC, RD 2 
(Conﬁdence=Medium-Low)
Meng Ding vs. Jose Souza
Fight Odds: Ding -115, Henrique -105
Odds to end ITD: -160
DraftKings Salaries: Ding 8.4k, Henrique 7.8k
Weight Class: 170

--- PAGE BREAK ---

*Matchup analysis written by Gordon Clark
The ﬁght night continues with a matchup of debutants (and 
Contender Series losers), as the hometown Meng Ding takes on 
Jose Henrique Souza. Let’s dive in.
Meng Ding makes his UFC debut this weekend with plenty of 
regional experience behind him. The 31-year-old Chinese ﬁghter 
has a record of 35-9 since his debut in 2015, which is a lot of 
ﬁghts and wins to see. Was it against the best level of 
competition? No. But it’s good to see Ding having plenty of 
experiences, getting in some good reps and having plenty of wins 
under his belt. 
Meng Ding is a brawler, that’s the nicest way to put it. This man 
has been in some WARS. He is constantly moving forward, 
throwing shots and is content to eat one to give one. He has a 
86% ﬁnish rate including 28 (!!) KO’s and 2 submissions. He is 
5-3 to the decision and has also been ﬁnished 6 times, showing 
that he is a beatable ﬁghter, despite his toughness. 
Although he does not have much defense, he is constantly 
moving forward and looking to break people. He can be hit, he 
can be countered. I’ve seen him knocked down a few times in a 
ﬁght and get right back up. But you have to kill this man to get him 
out of there. He hits hard, will eat a bunch of shots and keep 
going and look to break you with pressure and offense. 
It’s very fun to watch, but it’s also not the highest level gameplan. 
Fighters with power can catch him coming in and knock him out, 
and quicker ﬁghters can point ﬁght from the outside, such as 
Rami Hamed did on the Contender Series back in 2024. But if you 
do not have the cardio or durability to trade with him, he will walk 
you down and look to make you quit. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Defensively, there are issues. Notably, in the ground game. He 
can be taken down and he’s been submitted four times. He 
himself doesn’t wrestle offensively all that well, and is more so 
looking to get this back to the feet and land bigger shots. Just 
think of him as a drunk dude at a bar. Not much technique, purely 
looking to take your head off and he’s willing to be hit and hurt 
several times in the process, but he doesn’t care. It is funny to 
watch. 
Overall though, it’s a tough strategy to back long term. Ding is 
going to rate out as a fun action ﬁghter who is always live to land 
big shots and break people on the feet, but I would like for him to 
shore up his grappling game and striking defence before trusting 
him at too high of a clip.
Jose Henrique Souza looks to ﬁnally get to ﬁght under the UFC 
banner, after dropping his Contender Series bout and having 3 
ﬁghts cancelled in the past few months. Now, with VISA issues 
sorted, the 6’3” welterweight looks to show what he has and ﬂies 
across the world to do so. 
Souza is 24 years old with a record of 8-1. He is big for the 
division and looks to utilize that range in his striking game. He’s 
got solid power and ﬁnishing ability, with a 75% ﬁnish rate, and all 
of them coming by way of KO. He is content to work off the back 
foot and land power shots, and he does have the length to put 
people’s lights out. 
He is also 2-0 to the decision showing he can win minutes, but I 
cannot take too much from those wins as they look to come 
against a lower level of competition than I’d like to see. That level 
of competition has held him back a lot. It’s tough to know his true 
ceiling because he is looking okay against lower level ﬁghters but 
when he took that step up against Yusaku Kinoshita on the 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Contender Series (who has now gone 0-3 since that ﬁght by the 
way), he looked slow and was knocked out in the third round of 
that matchup. 
Souza has now been ﬁnished in his only loss and when facing 
adversity, and I question his durability and resiliency. That is only 
heightened with his “tall man defense”, as he’s pulling his head 
back and leaving himself to be countered, and I’m waiting for the 
higher level of competition (like Kinoshita), to ﬁnd that target. 
Offensively though, he’s not horrible and does look to land 
damage in exchanges and has solid weapons to do so. 
On the mat, I’m not sure what to think. I haven’t seen him grapple 
too much and I cannot expect him to shoot takedowns. I have 
actually seen him struggle off his back himself, but he does train 
at Nova Uniao so I’d like to think that part of his game is 
improving. 
Either way though, that’s not his style. He wants to exchange on 
the feet, utilize his length and look to land big counter hooks. I 
don’t like how he takes the back foot nor how he pulls his head 
back, but we do have to acknowledge his power and the fact he is 
only 24, he can still be improving. 
Overall, Souza is a primary striker with decent power and range 
but I would like to see him shore up his defensive tendencies and 
take the front foot more often before trusting him at the UFC 
Level. 
This is a pretty fun matchup. Neither guy is that high level but they 
can both get into scraps. They are both guys who have issues in 
their game and who I want to fade long term. Both have fought at 
a low level of competition regionally and lost their DWCS 
matchups. But neither guy really wants to wrestle so I think we get 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

a fun striking match, woo hoo! Technique and hand speed wise, 
neither guy is anything to rave about. They have their issues 
defensively and can both be countered. I actually think Souza 
might be the quicker striker. But their styles are a bit different. 
Souza wants to keep people at range and I haven’t seen him hit 
too much. When I have seen him hit, he was put out COLD. 
Ding on the other hand, I’ve seen hit and hurt a million times. This 
guy just leaves his head on a platter to be hit. He walks forward, 
eats one to give one and looks to hit back hard. In front of the 
home crowd, I like that style, but Ding is always live to just be hit 
and KO’d. He’s got great resiliency and can get back up, but it’s 
not a favorable style to have. 
However, I do like him in this matchup. It’s pretty easy to 
visualize. Ding will walk forward, Souza will accept the back foot. 
Ding will look to take your head off and throw volume, Souza will 
look to counter. I think Souza has to land a big shot and deter 
Ding because if not, Ding will look to break him and honestly, I 
think he does. I like Ding’s pressure, volume and proven 
resiliency and I think in what is an all out brawl, his style will work 
out a bit better against the tall man defence of Souza. 
Give me the hometown guy to get a win in his UFC debut, 
although their defensive lapses don’t give me the most conﬁdence 
either way. 
—
On DraftKings, I can get behind this ﬁght for its ﬁght ending 
potential.
The real trouble with this matchup is that the fantasy upside is 
dependent on a ﬁnish. Neither man pushes enough pace, or 
grapples much, for me to be excited without the ﬁnish.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

We’ve seen Ding go to decision and land 51 strikes, so if these 
two simply survive, the ﬁght will bust.
With that said, it’s hard not to see someone getting hurt. Ding was 
knocked down three times in his last ﬁght, a ﬁght which he won by 
knockout. And Souza was KOd cold on DWCS, and then 
essentially KOd in one of his more recent regional bouts, a ﬁght 
that he also won.
So these guys are deﬁnitely tough, but they are super hittable and 
probably will get knocked out soon in losses. I think Ding is a bit 
better and more physical, but there’s a lot of variance in ﬁghts like 
this.
Ding is 8.4k and seems like a solid fantasy option. He’s +135 to 
win ITD and has like 30 KOs on his record. He’s boom or bust, 
but I’m hopeful for the boom side. His betting line is also falling 
which I think could push people off him.
Ultimately there’s no reason to feel conﬁdent here but Ding is a 
strong mid-range target who could score a knockout and exceed 
value.
Souza is priced at 7.8k and may even be more dependent on the 
knockout.
The same issues exist where he won’t throw meaningful volume 
and probably won’t wrestle, so if the ﬁght extends, he can bust. 
He’s a decent boxer though offensively with some power, and 
Ding can be hit.
Souza is +285 to win ITD which isn’t as strong, but I consider him 
a similar target to Ding. He may rate out as the value side by ﬁght 
night in which case, he could even be more popular than Ding.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Souza isn’t very good, so I’m not dying to target him in a vacuum, 
but this matchup is likely to end ITD and it’s a high-variance scrap 
with two questionable defensive talents. It seems worth it to mix 
Souza in as a secondary underdog and I think an early KO is 
semi-realistic if he wins at all.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Ding by TKO, RD 2 
(Conﬁdence=Low)
Aoriqileng vs. Cody Haddon
Fight Odds: Haddon -365, Aoriqileng +290
Odds to end ITD: -130
DraftKings Salaries: Haddon 9.3k, Aoriqileng 6.9k
Weight Class: 135
*Matchup analysis written by Technical Tim
We have a fun action ﬁght here in the bantamweight division 
between rising prospect Cody Haddon and UFC veteran 
Aoriqileng.
I still hate Aoriqileng for taking a No Contest against Daniel 
Marcos, a matchup Marcos was completely dominating before an 
accidental foul occurred. I am not convinced Aoriqileng was 
actually hurt.
Following that, Aoriqileng dropped a clear unanimous decision to 
Raul Rosas Jr., where his grappling vulnerabilities were exposed 
once again. However, he bounced back in explosive fashion in his 
last outing, scoring a brutal 21-second knockout over veteran 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Cody Gibson. It was a bit random but it displayed a win condition 
Aoriqileng has.
Aoriqileng is now 4-4 (with 1 NC) in the UFC and remains a 
chaotic action ﬁghter who relies heavily on striking pace, power, 
and variance. He lands 4.69 signiﬁcant strikes per minute while 
absorbing 5.47 in return. He brings solid cardio and dangerous 
power, but his lack of defense means he gets hit way too often for 
comfort. I don’t think he is an actual skilled striker and over the 
duration he will get hit way too much against a skilled striker. He 
is somewhat tough but has been knocked out and hurt in the 
UFC.
Aoriaileng is not a good grappler. He averages 1.20 takedowns 
per 15 minutes and struggles defensively with a 58% takedown 
defense. While he can scramble and defend takedowns at times, 
he has historically surrendered multiple takedowns to Cody 
Durden, Jay Perrin, Johnny Munoz, and Raul Rosas Jr. He has 
never been submitted in the UFC, but he holds three submission 
losses from the regional circuit and only has one submission win 
across 39 professional ﬁghts.
I just expect Aoriqileng to be in fun action ﬁghts. He can knock 
people out and compete in striking ﬁghts. However, skilled 
grapplers or skilled volume strikers should beat him if they avoid 
getting knocked out.
On the other side of this matchup, Cody Haddon enters as a 
promising 8-1 prospect from Australia. Haddon secured his UFC 
contract through Dana White’s Contender Series with a quick 
club-and-sub. He then impressed in his promotional debut by 
outworking Dan Argueta. Haddon did a great job defending 
takedowns, mixing in a few of his own and outstriking Argueta 
140-54 in signiﬁcant strikes which was super impressive.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I basically consider Haddon a very well-rounded pace ﬁghter. He 
is very active on the feet and comes from a boxing background. 
He comes forward, and paces his opponents and lands solid 
fundamentals boxing combinations to the head and the body with 
the occasional leg kicks. He does his best work on the front foot. I 
haven’t seen him ﬁght many strikers so I don’t know quite how 
well his striking defense will look. However, he is clearly very 
competent and his pace alone is a weapon.
Haddon is also a black belt in BJJ. I don’t consider his takedowns 
all that good, but they aren’t terrible and he can ﬂow on the mat 
with back takes on opponents and can take advantage of weak, 
hurt, or tired grapplers. I also thought his TDD looked very good 
vs Argueta.
Overall, I like Haddon. He is clearly well-rounded and can box and 
grapple with a hard pace. I do question his athleticism to a degree 
and I want to see his defensive striking tested more. Overall 
though, he is a solid ﬁghter.
As far as this matchup goes, the advantage lies with Haddon due 
to his ability to dictate the location of the ﬁght. On the feet, 
Haddon’s pressure boxing and technical volume are likely to 
exploit Aoriqileng’s defensive gaps.
While Aoriqileng is a game striker who just proved his power 
against Gibson, Haddon’s durability and forward movement 
should allow him to win the volume battle. Aoriqileng typically 
needs to land a massive power shot to turn the tide, and I 
basically think Aoriqileng is KO or bust on the feet.
Additionally, Haddon has a clear path to victory on the mat. 
Aoriqileng’s defensive grappling isn’t horrible and I don’t totally 
love Haddon’s takedowns. However, Haddon can deﬁnitely 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ground AoriQileng if he puts on a hard pace or if he hurts 
AoriQileng standing.
Overall, I just think Haddon is better everywhere and AoriQileng is 
probably KO or bust.
—
On DraftKings, I’m fairly interested in this matchup for pacing 
purposes.
Although this ﬁght isn’t extremely likely to end inside the distance 
or in round one, it’s likely to be one of the highest paced ﬁghts of 
the night. Haddon just landed 140 sig strikes and we’ve already 
seen Aoriqileng absorb 189 strikes in a ﬁght before to .. checks 
notes.. Jeff Molina..
That ﬁght aside, I just like Haddon’s pressure and pacing, and 
Aoriqileng needs to and is willing to brawl. He’ll need to land big 
damage and if he can’t, I think there’s a decent chance Haddon 
overwhelms him with pacing and activity.
Haddon is priced at 9.3k and ﬁts a different mold than most of the 
others in this range. Pavlovich, Zhang and Asakura all very likely 
need an early KO to be optimal, while Haddon does not. Haddon 
may not have the same ﬁnishing equity, but he can get there in a 
mid-round TKO or submission, or via grappling domination or a 
mix of it all.
The issue is that he’s only +140 to win ITD. When you compare 
that to -250 and -300 ITD of some others in this range, it’s hard to 
view Haddon as a priority. At this expensive price tag, I don’t 
consider him a must.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I do like rostering Haddon still though, because if he’s able to 
secure a ﬁnish, he arguably has a higher ceiling than other 
ﬁghters in this range based on his activity. He shouldn’t be 
extremely popular either, and I think works as a very strong pivot 
off one of these boom/bust strikers.
I consider Haddon one of the safest of the group in that with any 
kind of win, Haddon can score well. He’s coming off a 100 point 
decision win and arguably has similar or higher upside than 
others in this range. I’m not sure his base outcomes outscore 
Pavlovich and Zhang if they win by round one KO, but I’d 
deﬁnitely like secondary exposure here for the situations where 
those boom/bust strikers fail to win quickly.
Aoriqileng is priced at 6.9k and is a mediocre target.
I obviously like the pacing of this ﬁght, and Aoriqileng has 
knockout power. I just perceive him to be at a disadvantage in 
pacing, durability and grappling, and he’s a big dog. I’m not dying 
to bet on him to win by KO.
Coming off a 127 point win, Aoriqileng could get some ownership 
as a punt. He’s only +375 to win ITD.
I wouldn’t completely rule out a KO as there’s a lot of variance in 
striking exchanges, but I only consider Aoriqileng a low-end target 
with a bit of ﬁnishing equity, and I’d personally rather pay up a bit 
more to get ﬁghters who I believe have a better shot to win.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Haddon by TKO, RD 3 
(Conﬁdence=Medium)
Rei Tsuruya vs. Luis Gurule
Fight Odds: Tsuruya -225, Gurule +190

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Odds to end ITD: +100
DraftKings Salaries: Tsuruya 8.8k, Gurule 7.4k
Weight Class: 135
*Matchup analysis written by Gordon Clark
The ﬁght night continues as Rei Tsuruya makes his return to the 
Octagon against the short notice replacement, Luis Gurule. Let’s 
dive in.
Rei Tsuruya won his UFC contract through the Road to the UFC a 
couple years ago. He was an undefeated ﬁghter with some solid 
skills and a great wrestling background, and he exempliﬁes it in 
his ﬁghting game. He was able to back up the wins on the Road 
to the UFC with a decision win over Carlos Hernandez, before 
running into current champion Joshua Van who was able to fend 
off the takedowns and outstrike him on the feet. 
Now, at 10-1 and 23 years old, Tsuruya looks to get back to his 
winning ways this weekend. He took 14 months off after his ﬁrst 
pro loss and at his young age, you have to think that is good for 
his development. At his core, Tsuruya is an explosive wrestler. He 
is currently averaging 5.06 takedowns per 15 minutes and has 
landed a takedown in each of his appearances under the UFC 
banner, including 4 against Van and 8 against Mark Climaco.
Although he has great takedown offense and can also threaten 
from the top position, he doesn’t always have the best control and 
he can let his opponents up. He can procure ﬁnishes on the mat 
and on the feet, as he holds an 80% ﬁnish rate split evenly 
between 4 KOs and 4 submissions, all of which have ended in the 
ﬁrst two rounds. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

With his heavy grappling pace, he can slow down and that was 
the case against Van, as well as against Carlos Hernandez where 
he was controlled for 4:23 in the third round alone as he wasn’t as 
explosive on his entries. However, he shot 21 takedowns against 
Van and is able to threaten scrambles at a high clip, where he 
does have the physicality and skill to threaten ﬁnishes. 
His striking is also improving, but is certainly not his best asset. 
He’s currently averaging 2.24 strikes landed per minute and 
although he does have decent power and in and out movement, it 
is typically used to set up his takedowns. He does have solid 
durability though. He was able to survive against Van and has 
never been ﬁnished in his professional career. He is also 2-1 to 
the decision, showing that although he can slow down, he can 
often also do enough to bank the ﬁrst couple rounds with the 
wrestling. 
Overall, Tsuruya is a dangerous wrestling prospect who is still 
improving and is quick to get to the hips. He does have great 
offense to take you down and threaten ﬁnishes, but sometimes 
lacks control and can drain his gas tank. I would like to see that 
control and cardio improved, since he certainly isn’t as dangerous 
on the feet, but he does rate out as a solid wrestle heavy prospect 
that can develop into a solid contender.
Luis Gurule makes a quick turnaround this weekend after getting 
his ﬁrst UFC win just two weeks ago against Daniel Barez. Gurule 
struggled to ﬁnd his footing in the UFC after a very impressive 
Contender Series debut against Nick Piccininni, where he was 
able to rally against a very solid wrestler, show great cardio and 
work ethic and out box him to a split decision. 
At that point, Gurule was an undefeated prospect at 11-0, but he 
lost his ﬁrst three under the UFC banner in pretty disappointing 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

fashion. He was ﬁnished by Ode Osbourne in round two, hurt on 
the feet by Jesus Aguilar and then was dominated over 15 
minutes by Alden Coria. 
He then opened as a pick’em to Daniel Barez a couple weeks 
ago, but was able to put on a pretty dominant boxing display over 
the course of 15 minutes. He showed great cardio and volume, as 
he landed 178 strikes and threatened a ﬁnish a few times over a 
pretty tough Barez. 
The issue for Gurule in the UFC has been that durability, but he 
himself ate some big shots and looked a career best. Now, just 
two weeks later, he looks for another win. 
Gurule is a primary boxer. Although smaller for the division, he 
has great cardio and volume, and builds as the ﬁght goes on. He 
averages 5.7 strikes landed per minute and has landed over 100 
strikes in both his UFC wins. Although not the most dangerous 
ﬁghter, with only a 55% ﬁnish rate split between 5 KOs and one 
submission, he is 5-2 to the decision and has good minute 
winning to win over the judges, especially as the ﬁght goes on.
 Because of the boxing threat on the feet, we have seen ﬁghters 
mix in takedowns on Gurule. He is currently defending takedowns 
at 59% and we did see Piccininni take him down 10 times on 
DWCS, but he never settled and worked his way to the feet quite 
well. He is typically able to scramble quite well and work his way 
to the feet, but it might be something to look out for when he takes 
step ups in competition. 
As I mentioned earlier, the issue for Gurule has been the 
durability. He can lose moments when he’s wobbled and Ode 
Osbourne was able to put him out cold. I’m not as worried about 
that performance, but it was being rocked multiple times by Jesus 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Aguilar that gives us some cause for concern. I do think he’s one 
of those ﬁghters that looks good until he’s put out cold, but he 
absorbed some big shots from Barez so it’s been hit or miss. 
The last thing to mention is that Gurule is a ﬁghter who does build 
as the ﬁght goes on. His cardio is great and as he gets his reads, 
the volume only builds. He can start slow and lose round one, but 
is typically the ﬁghter I’d expect to win round 3. 
Overall, Gurule is a high paced, volume boxer with a solid get up 
game and work ethic. I do have concerns about his durability 
which is only heightened as he just fought 14 days ago, but he will 
rate out as a ﬁghter who is able to win minutes at a high clip, 
especially as the ﬁght goes on.
This is a short notice affair for Gurule and one where he is making 
a quick turnaround. A ﬁght on short notice for Gurule, a guy with 
durability concerns already, 14 days after just absorbing 113 
signiﬁcant strikes is not always the best look. However, I will say 
this is a better matchup for him here. 
I much preferred Tsuruya against Aguilar, but this gives a different 
layer to it. Don’t get me wrong, Tsuruya will look great early. He 
will be bigger, be quicker in the wrestling and more times than not, 
be able to get takedowns at a high clip early on. The issue is just 
that he’s a ﬁghter who tends to slow down as the ﬁght goes on 
with not the best control, against a ﬁghter who builds as the ﬁght 
goes on, has great cardio and has already proven the ability to 
work his way to the feet quite well. 
So early, it’s all Tsuruya. He should be able to land takedowns 
and win optics. In my eyes, in this ﬁght that is -135 to go the 
distance, Tsuruya wins round one at a high clip, and conversely, 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Gurule with his pace, building as the ﬁght goes on and cardio 
should win round 3 at a high clip. 
So how does round two go? Can Tsuruya hold down Gurule? Can 
he even hurt him on the feet? Sure, the clear striking and volume 
edge is to Gurule, but I give the early optics and durability edge to 
the 23 year old here. 
I typically go wrestler over striker and do think Tsuruya has 
enough success in round 1-2, along with the ﬁnish upside, to get 
the nod this weekend, but It’s certainly a harder matchup and I 
wouldn’t be surprised to see Gurule have some late success and 
steal a close decision. 
The ﬁght kind of reminds me of the Piccininni ﬁght Gurule had 
where he was able to win, but I think I rate out Tsuruya’s control 
just a tad better and think he can have some early success and 
bank a couple rounds in front of the asian crowd cheering him on. 
—
On DraftKings, you’ll have to pick your poison on this one 
because there’s not a whole lot to feel conﬁdent with.
I had a lot of hope for Tsuruya entering the UFC, given his Junior 
Olympic wrestling background, and I thought his BJJ skills were 
pretty sharp as well. After watching him compete in the UFC 
though, I think his game is pretty broken.
Clearly in my mind, Tsuruya was not ready for the UFC. His 
takedowns looked very mediocre, and his control game wasn’t 
strong. He’s crafty on the mat but he rates out more as a tricky 
BJJ guy than a physical wrestler. Additionally, his striking and 
cardio are weak.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

With that said, he’s only now 23 years old. He looks more 
physical and jacked up now than we saw him in his last ﬁght. I’d 
hope he can make improvements. Can I count on those 
improvements though?
This matchup is tough because Gurule already fought Piccininni 
who is a D1 All-American wrestler, and Gurule scrambled well in 
that ﬁght. He gave up 10 takedowns but very little control.
I do think Tsuruya can take Gurule down, probably a few times. I 
think he can take his back. Man, if Tsuruya can’t get an early sub 
though, I don’t think he wins this ﬁght. Gurule has a college 
wrestling base and he’s clearly the better boxer, with more volume 
and better cardio.
I’m honestly picking Gurule to win. I’m hopeful Tsuruya looks 
better here, and I do think he’ll have a shot at an early sub. I really 
don’t trust his control game and I’ve seen Gurule scramble well 
enough that I’m highly concerned for Tsuruya if this ﬁght extends.
Tsuruya is priced at 8.8k and has upside given his style. We’ve 
seen him score 106 in a decision win before, with 8 takedowns, 
and we’ve seen Gurule give up takedowns. A sub is in play and 
Tsuruya is +175 to win ITD.
I think Tsuruya is a decent fantasy target, considering the price. I 
do think others are far safer to win, and have better shots at a 
quick KO. Tsuruya isn’t an outright priority to me. But in this low 
9k, upper 8k price range, he ﬁts in well and provides an upside 
case when he wins.
I may be lower than the ﬁeld this week in general on Tsuruya but I 
probably will end up with moderate, near the ﬁeld type of 
exposure to him given the cost and his style.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Gurule is priced at 7.4k and I like him some.
I think his last win was kind of BS in the sense that he landed 149 
sig strikes. Barez landed 113 apparently. I don’t know if I buy 
those numbers and they feel a bit inﬂated. Regardless I do think 
his volume is superior to Tsuruya’s and he’d have some KO equity 
late in the ﬁght.
Tsuruya doesn’t allow a lot of strikes though, and Van only landed 
59 strikes and scored 68 DK points. That’s a pretty big concern. 
Tsuruya also gave up takedowns and control to Carlos Hernandez 
so I think Gurule could have some wrestling equity too if Tsuruya 
tires.
Essentially what this means is Gurule won’t project well. He is 
+400 to win ITD and won’t project to land a ton of strikes, or 
takedowns. He could get taken down early, controlled and 
subbed.
If Gurule wins though, I’d want exposure to him at 7.4k. We’ve 
seen Tsuruya dropped, taken down, and gas out. There’s enough 
here where I’m just not totally sure what a win for Gurule could 
look like and a 3rd round TKO seems on the table. He could also 
score 65 and miss the optimal.
This isn’t a true priority and I wouldn’t count on him matching his 
previous score, but at cost, I like Gurule as a low-end secondary 
target and I think he could very reasonably win the ﬁght if Tsuruya 
hasn’t made considerable improvements.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Gurule by Decision 
(Conﬁdence=Low)
Angela Hill vs. Jingnan Xiong

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Fight Odds: Jingnan -190, Hill +165
Odds to end ITD: +275
DraftKings Salaries: Jingnan 8.7k, Hill 7.5k
Weight Class: 115
*Matchup analysis written by Technical Tim
Coming off a hard-fought loss against Fatima Kline, Angela Hill 
will look to bounce back this weekend against promotional 
newcomer and former ONE Championship strawweight champion 
Jingnan Xiong.
Hill is basically a striker, and she is always live to win striking 
ﬁghts. She lands 5.37 signiﬁcant strikes per minute and absorbs 
5.02 in return. She defends strikes at a solid 60 percent.
I respect Hill on the feet. She ﬁghts hard and can always have 
success in the clinch. She is also just very tough and has good 
durability. She can mix in kicks, punches, knees, and elbows. She 
is just so experienced and comfortable as a striker. She also has 
shown pretty good cardio in recent years.
Hill doesn’t really land many takedowns but she has faced great 
competition and has fought a ton of strikers and grapplers 
recently. She only lands 0.75 takedowns per 15 minutes. I have 
always considered her an underrated grappler and she actually 
landed 2 takedowns against Pinheiro and submitted Pinheiro. She 
also landed 5 takedowns against Denise Gomes. More recently, 
she struggled to establish ground control against Lucindo. I do 
think she can sneakily take down low to mid tier ﬁghters of this 
division.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Hill does defend takedowns at 72 percent which is solid, and I do 
think she has really improved her TDD over the years. Hill can be 
controlled for stretches. You saw that against Jandiroba, Dern, 
and recently Lucindo and Kline in her losses. Those ﬁghters are 
high-level grapplers though and I have seen Hill scramble up ﬁne 
vs other ﬁghters. She also scrambled up well against Tabatha 
Ricci.
I just think Hill is a good competitor. She can strike in volume and 
is tough as nails. She also has decent TDD and is capable of 
taking down ﬁghters if she chooses to pivot her strategy.
I will say the main concern that I have for Hill is her age. She 
turned 41 this year. I guess I am just saying that I am a bit worried 
of an imminent Hill decline and I had more conﬁdence in her a 
couple of years ago. The physical athletic drop-off was visible in 
her last two decision losses. However, Kline and Lucindo are 
really good and are better than Hill ever was in her prime, so a 
write off of Hill may be premature. I didn’t think Hill looked bad in 
the ﬁrst couple of rounds against Lucindo either.
Hill will be taking on Jingnan Xiong who is making her UFC debut 
after a multi-year title reign in ONE Championship.
Xiong is 38 years old and enters the UFC on a ﬁve-ﬁght winning 
streak. She is 19-2 professionally. I mostly consider Xiong a 
power striker who predominantly uses her hands.
As a striker, Xiong has good hands and combination punching. 
She also has decent cardio and can ﬁght 15 minutes no issue. 
She is pretty quick with her hands in general and carries decent 
power for a woman. Her output isn’t always the best but she has 
good boxing setups and heavy power hooks. I think she will strike 
ﬁne in the UFC with most women.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I still am a little concerned with Xiong’s volume though and she 
can be hit with other striking weapons like kicks, etc. She will 
thrive more so in pocket and boxing range, but I think she could 
be out slicked from other ranges. I actually think her biggest 
weakness is being clinched against the cage and hit with knees, 
etc. in the clinch. She will get stuck there for extended stretches.
Xiong doesn’t really wrestle all that much. I have seen her get top 
position a few times but she generally looks to strike. I think her 
defensive takedown stufﬁng is okay. She can get taken down here 
and there but she is physical and I think she is a competent 
defensive wrestler. I deﬁnitely think the top grapplers of this 
division will give her issues though as I have seen her stuck on 
her back.
Overall, Xiong is ﬁne. She isn’t great. However, she can strike and 
has some crisp hands, and good enough defensive wrestling to 
give her a chance to beat plenty of girls in this division.
As far as this matchup goes, this would have been a clear play on 
Hill for me a couple of years ago if I wanted to rely on sneaky 
takedowns and veteran cage-pressuring. Hill generally always 
tests these newer promotional faces and has historically been a 
great gatekeeper.
Hill’s age concerns me still but I do expect this to be very 
competitive. On the feet, I think Xiong clearly has the more 
powerful hands at range. If they are stuck at range, I think I favor 
Xiong just because she hits harder and has more powerful hands. 
I still think Hill will compete ﬁne at range and use other tools like 
kicks and diverse strikes to land volume and keep it close. If they 
are striking in parity at range though, that probably favors Xiong 
as Xiong hits harder and is more damaging.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I really think Hill should go for the clinch here. Hill is very good at 
clinching and landing knees and elbows. Xiong is seriously bad in 
this position and will concede offensive strikes here. I think if Hill 
obsessively clinches, she will win this ﬁght.
I also think Hill is more likely to land takedowns here. Hill pursues 
takedowns and Xiong has conceded takedowns.
So I really see this as a ﬁght where Xiong is maybe a little more 
damaging at range but it is competitive. However, Hill has the 
clinch and potential spot takedowns to make the ﬁght super tight. I 
think we get a 29-28 type of decision here and I am going to ride 
with Hill one last time. Her age may prove to be the ex factor, but 
Xiong is no spring chicken herself. I expect a competitive one 
here.
—
On DraftKings, I don’t necessarily view this ﬁght as a priority.
The ﬁght as a whole is -350 to go the distance and therefore, the 
lack of ﬁnishing equity limits the ceiling on paper. Plus, neither 
side is a guarantee to wrestle.
There’s a large portion of the outcomes here where these two 
strike competitively to a decision, and the winner scores less than 
80 points. By default, it’s not a ﬁght that you must roster.
Jingnan is priced at 8.7k and I just feel she’s too expensive for her 
base expectation. I’d be surprised if she grappled with urgency, 
and she’s +400 to win ITD. Without a knockout, it’s tough to see 
Jingnan standing out at this price.
I’m far more interested in ﬁghters priced below, and above her, 
and ultimately only consider Jingnan a contrarian target. Perhaps 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

she has some sneaky KO equity given the age dynamic but it’s 
not something I can bet on.
Hill is the preferred target of the two at 7.5k, though she’s more of 
a ﬂoor play than someone I’m excited to roster.
I do think in most outcomes, Hill can land some strikes, ﬁght semi-
competitively and make it the distance. But she is only +600 to 
win ITD and without takedowns, her ceiling is super limited.
Hill will rate out well for cash games, but for tournaments, you’re 
really hoping she employs a clinch and grapple heavy approach, 
where she does carry upside. We’ve actually seen her top 100 DK 
points in three of her past four wins, with a couple of those 
coming via takedowns and control.
Jingnan isn’t a particularly good grappler, so I wouldn’t be 
shocked if Hill has some wrestling success. I can’t bet on 100 DK 
points, but can she win a decision and score in the mid-80s? I 
think that’s a reasonable outcome.
I only consider Hill a low-end target because she lacks real 
ﬁnishing equity, but there are some cases where she could ﬂash 
grappling upside, and she’s cheap enough to warrant mixing in a 
little bit.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Jingnan by Decision 
(Conﬁdence=Low)
Kangjie Zhu vs. Rodrigo Vera
Fight Odds: Vera -110, Zhu -110
Odds to end ITD: +180

--- PAGE BREAK ---

DraftKings Salaries: Vera 8.3k, Zhu 7.9k
Weight Class: 145
*Matchup analysis written by Technical Tim
We have an intriguing newcomer matchup here in the 
featherweight division between Road to UFC tournament winner 
Zhu Kangjie and promotional debutant Rodrigo Vera. Vera is 
taking this ﬁght on three week’s notice.
Zhu is a fundamentally sound kickboxer who relies heavily on his 
distance management and power. He is a compact striker. He 
comes from a kickboxing background. He lacks volume at times, 
but he possesses measurable power in his right hand and 
frequently uses a steady diet of body shots to slow opponents 
down. He can mix in kicks to the body too.
Looking closely at his Road to UFC tournament run, Zhu fought 
three times to secure his contract. In the quarterﬁnals, he won a 
clear unanimous decision over Tatsuya Ando, dropping him twice 
and using sharp liver shots to slow the pace. He outstruck Ando 
74-14 in signiﬁcant strikes in that ﬁght.
In the semiﬁnals, Zhu’s path became much harder against 
wrestler Shin Haraguchi (I can conﬁrm Haraguchi is a legit and 
accomplished wrestler on the international circuit), where Zhu was 
forced into high-amplitude grappling exchanges and narrowly 
escaped with a split decision win. Zhu was essentially on the 
wrestling defense this entire ﬁght and outlanded Haraguchi 31-17 
in signiﬁcant strikes. Haraguchi landed 16 of 33 takedown 
attempts (which is fucking insane) and was able to control Zhu 
against the cage at times. However, Zhu generally didn’t get 
completely grounded and Haraguchi is a tough ﬁghter to deal 
with.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In the tournament ﬁnale, Zhu faced seasoned competitor Xie Bin 
and struggled with the wrestling output again, but his cleaner 
damage from the outside secured him another narrow split 
decision victory. It was another ﬁght where Zhu was forced to 
defend a lot of takedowns and he actually was outlanded 29-25 in 
signiﬁcant strikes.
The close nature of his last two tournament bouts shows Zhu 
sometimes just struggles to throw strikes when he is forced to 
defend takedowns. I actually think his takedown defense is decent 
and he can avoid getting completely grounded, but he can get his 
offense stiﬂed and held vs the cage when forced to defend 
wrestling in general. 
It’s tough because many guys would have just been outwrestled 
in those ﬁghts so they weren’t bad performances. I just wish Zhu 
would throw more and not be so hesitant when he has his 
moments to throw. You saw him throw more vs Ando as he wasn’t 
forced to defend takedowns as much. Zhu doesn’t wrestle all that 
much offensively. 
Zhu will be taking on Peruvian ﬁghter Rodrigo Vera. Vera is a 
balanced, fairly well-rounded newcomer who steps into this 
matchup riding a 13-ﬁght winning streak on the regional circuit. 
He is 21-1-1 professionally. 
Just for some context, he actually is the only guy to beat Juan 
Diaz who just upset Wellmaker. Furthermore, Vera is on the latest 
season of TUF which airs in June but ﬁlming is complete. The fact 
that Vera is taking this ﬁght on three weeks notice before the 
show airs means he is likely not in the tournament ﬁnals which is 
supposed to occur later this summer. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I am not positive here but that likely means Vera lost on TUF, but 
impressed enough to get a short notice call. Or maybe he got 
injured but is now healthy to compete? Either way I think it is 
interesting information.
Vera is basically a volume wrestler. I think his takedowns are 
decent but honestly I don’t think they are great either. Generally 
these South American volume wrestlers come to the UFC and 
don’t thrive because South Americans just aren’t good technical 
wrestlers as it isn’t a popular sport in those countries. I still think 
Vera is very tenacious though, and has a good motor and he can 
outwrestle below-average grapplers for sure. I still just don’t think 
he is a great technical wrestler and he only has three submission 
wins on the regionals, so he isn’t the best submission grappler.
Vera’s striking is okay. He doesn’t have a ton of power on the feet, 
but he is very tough and if his wrestling fails he will walk 
opponents down and try to land volume and pace. I do worry 
about his defense a bit but he is serviceable standing.
As far as this matchup goes, this is a close one man and it may 
look very similar to Zhu’s last matchups that ended by split 
decision.
On the feet, I think Zhu is a more technical and powerful striker, 
and if they exchange on the feet I think Zhu will land the more 
effective strikes. I think both guys are tough and Vera will try hard 
and maybe keep it competitive on volume, but I do think Zhu’s 
power is the big advantage on the feet here.
My guess is Vera will try to wrestle at least early. I do think Vera 
can land takedowns and clinch Zhu up and stiﬂe Zhu’s offense. 
However, Zhu should be able to resist and not completely get 
grounded. So my guess is we get a back and forth ﬁght where 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

they exchange standing with Zhu landing the bigger shots but 
Vera being tough enough to compete. Then Vera will have spot 
success clinching or landing an occasional takedown.
I really worry about Zhu because he tends to not let his hands go 
when guys like Vera wrestle. So Vera probably has a high ﬂoor in 
this matchup. I still just don’t think Vera is going to dominate with 
wrestling either and they will likely strike in spots and I think Zhu 
will land the more damaging shots which judges tend to like. I will 
pick Zhu to win a very competitive ﬁght.
—
On DraftKings, I think I will probably avoid this one although that 
doesn’t mean it won’t end up scoring well.
I view the ﬁght very similar to Tim, and my worry essentially is that 
Vera needs to grapple dominate to be optimal, and I’m unsure he 
can do it. Zhu does give up a ton of takedowns, but he’s not easy 
to hold down and Vera isn’t that great of a grappler.
Vera is priced at 8.3k and I think he’s a viable contrarian target. 
With odds moving against him, he’s a bit overpriced and I really 
don’t think he’ll get a lot of attention this week, with so many other 
strong mid-range matchups. If he wins, 5+ takedowns could be 
involved.
I’m still unsure it’s enough, because I’m not sold on control or 
ﬁnishing ability. Vera is +300 to win ITD. I’d rather bet on the ﬁght 
being competitive than I would bet on Vera scoring 100 points in a 
win, ultimately.
However, if we say Vera is 14 percent owned or something low, 
mixing him in still makes sense. I think he’s an acceptable 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

contrarian tournament target for wrestling equity but my best 
guess is that he underperforms and/or loses.
Zhu is priced at 7.9k and I just can’t get behind the volume. He’s 
technically the value side but what does it matter?
Zhu very likely needs a knockout, and that’s tough to predict given 
his low volume. He doesn’t wrestle much or at all. Vera seems 
tough. Zhu is only +425 to win ITD.
There are enough underdogs I like that I’d rather bet on this ﬁght 
to extend, than I would bet on Zhu to win by KO. He could be 
viewed as a viable contrarian target as well with KO equity but on 
paper, the KO equity is still minimal.
I’m not 100 percent conﬁdent the ﬁght will play out exactly like we 
think, so at low public ownerships, it’s your right to mix these guys 
in if you have a different view. I just like so many other ﬁghts more 
for upside than this one.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Zhu by Decision (Conﬁdence=Low)
Loma Lookboonmee vs. Jaqueline Amorim
Fight Odds: Amorim -130, Lookboonmee -110
Odds to end ITD: +140
DraftKings Salaries: Amorim 8.2k, Lookboonmee 8k
Weight Class: 115
*Matchup analysis written by Technical Tim

--- PAGE BREAK ---

We have an interesting ﬁght here between jiu-jiitsu ace 
Jacqueline Amorim and Loma Lookboonme.
Amorim is a BJJ blackbelt and has a great track record in big time 
BJJ tournaments. She took 2nd in the blackbelt division of the 
IBJJF world no-gi championships in 2016.
Amorim is now dedicated to MMA and is 10-2 professionally. She 
made her UFC debut against Sam Hughes and won round 1 with 
dominant grappling positions. She took Hughes down, body 
triangled her, and nearly submitted her. Then Amorim gassed 
horribly, started pulling guard, and just got beaten up on her back 
for the next two rounds. 
Her next UFC ﬁght was a dominant grappling based win against 
Conejo Ruiz. She then quickly submitted Cory McKenna in round 
one via arm bar. More recently, she submitted Vanessa 
Demopolous and Polyana Viana in her last wins. 
In Amorim’s last matchup, she lost a decision to Mizuki. It was 
similar to the Hughes ﬁght where Amorim had some early 
success, couldn’t get a ﬁnish, the ﬁght got extended and then 
Amorim tired and was beaten up on the feet and off her back.
It seems like it is going to be the same drill with Amorim. Amorim 
is going to be a grappling storm threat early in ﬁghts. However, if 
she doesn’t have an opponent she can submit quickly, and is 
facing someone who can resist her and survive, Amorim will likely 
slow down and struggle. 
I just hate Amorim’s cardio man. She had nothing for 10 minutes 
against Sam Hughes and looked horrible down the stretch vs 
Mizuki. Furthermore, she has no striking and looks to pull guard 
when she is too tired to land takedowns. When she is tired and on 
her back, she looks to have nothing either so she can be held 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

down. I basically think Amorim is going to make a living in this 
division by dominating early with her grappling. However, she will 
probably lose when she faces anyone who can resist her or 
survive early.
I did like that Amorim fought into round 3 successfully against 
Montserrat Ruiz. However, even in rounds 2 and 3, Amorim was 
pulling guard. It worked out for her as she swept Ruiz but I don’t 
think she can just do that to everyone.
Amorim will be taking on Loma Lookboonme. I actually like Loma 
Lookboonme because I have bet her three times and she has 
come through all three times. I think she has ﬂaws in her game, 
but she puts up consistent offense which will win ﬁghts in WMMA.
Loma is a skilled thai striker. She lands 3.67 signiﬁcant strikes per 
minute and absorbs 2.52 in return. She deﬁnitely has some skills. 
She has some solid kicks from distance and is quick and slick. 
She also thrives in the clinch where she can manipulate 
opponents and land thai based strikes. On the feet, I like Loma 
and think she will compete just ﬁne in this division.
Loma also has a sneaky offensive wrestling game from the clinch. 
She lands 1.81 takedowns per 15 minutes. She has actually 
landed a takedown in 7 of 9 UFC ﬁghts and landed 4 against Sam 
Hughes. Her takedowns almost always come from the clinch as 
she is strong in that position and has a good understanding of 
leverage given her Thai background. I think she can continue to 
land takedowns against weak grapplers.
Loma does have some weaknesses though. She is kind of small 
for this division and girls have kind of roughed her up on the 
inside in boxing range and with wrestling because of it.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

She defends takedowns at 68 percent. However, good grapplers 
can take her down especially if they just use their size later on in 
ﬁghts. Loma has done well to survive though and she hasn’t been 
submitted in her UFC career. 
Loma isn’t a terrible defensive grappler though. I actually thought 
she did a decent job defending takedowns against Godinez who 
went 5 of 12 on takedowns. Loma gave up her back several 
times, and worked up and even reversed position and got on top 
in round 3 vs Godinez. Loma was taken down 5 times on 11 
attempts against Thainara. However, Loma still got up a few times 
and Thainara has insane cardio, physicality, and is a way better 
wrestler than Amorim.
My guess is people will look at those two ﬁghts and use them as 
examples as to why Amorim is going to win here. However, I am 
going to do the exact opposite. Godinez and Thainara have 10x 
the cardio and extended ﬁght wrestling ability of Amorim. Amorim 
isn’t capable of shooting 11 or 12 takedowns without badly 
gassing. I think Loma is fully capable of resisting here which I 
think will slow Amorim down and Loma will beat her up in the 
latter half of this ﬁght.
I do think Amorim has a path to victory here though. I do think 
Amorim can get Loma down and I expect her to early. It honestly 
may result in a quick submission because I do respect Amorim 
when fresh and I expect Amorim to get a decent position early.
That submission better come for Amorim though because if it 
doesn’t, I don’t expect Amorim to take and hold Loma down for 15 
minutes. I think resistance is inevitable here. I actually think Loma 
will tire Amorim, beat Amorim up standing, and then even land 
takedowns of her own. 

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I truly think Loma just has to survive early to win, and I think Loma 
is tough and functional enough as a grappler to do it. My guess is 
Amorim has early success, Loma ﬁghts hard to survive and then 
pivots this ﬁght into a one sided affair.
—
On DraftKings, this feels like a fairly binary matchup which 
intrigues me a little bit.
Amorim has been a DraftKings staple since she entered the UFC, 
largely because of her dependence on early grappling success. In 
wins, Amorim has scored 98, 103, 91 and 120, and the good 
news here is that unlike her past ﬁghts, she’s not very expensive.
I’ve had some real questions about playing Amorim at points 
because I wouldn’t consider her safe to win, and I also worry 
about her top end ceiling. Her most clear path may be a simple 
takedown, a back take, a submission, and 95 points.
So when Amorim is priced at 9.4k, there’s a lot to consider. Now 
priced at 8.2k, Amorim feels like a pretty strong option to exceed 
value in a win.
We still have to consider whether she will actually win the ﬁght 
though, and Tim being against her is somewhat concerning. 
Honestly, Amorim looked freaking awful in her last ﬁght. It was a 
terrible performance and almost suggests to me that she’s an 
outright failed prospect.
Because of that, I can totally see Amorim losing here once again. 
There is no way to trust her past round one, and her wrestling, 
striking and cardio look bad. Loma is a veteran with good cardio.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I can also see Amorim having early success, and a back take is 
somewhat likely. So ultimately, we’re lacking the safety here once 
again but that doesn’t necessarily change the outcome for her in a 
win.
Amorim is +210 to win ITD which is OK but not nearly as good as 
I’d like it to be. It’s actually pretty concerning that the ﬁght is 
projected to go the distance, which more suggests to me that 
Amorim shouldn’t be trusted here.
I think you have to play this spot blindly a little bit because in a 
win, Amorim is very likely to score 90-100 points. I could even 
argue she’s a strong play and someone to be overweight on if the 
public is scared off.
With that said, her ﬂaws and bust potential are obvious if she 
doesn’t get an early sub, and she should be treated like a real 
boom/bust grappler. I’ll probably have moderate exposure by 
default for upside, but I don’t feel great about her chances of 
winning to be honest.
Lookboonmee at 8k is the tougher call because she’s not 
necessarily a great fantasy asset.
She is only averaging 80 DK points per win, she’s never won ITD 
in the UFC, and she’s only topped 90 DK points twice in seven 
victories. Plus, Amorim could take her down and hold her down 
which could kill off her ceiling.
My hesitancy is essentially in what we’ve seen from Amorim in her 
losses. She just gave up 110 DK points to Mizuki which is 
pathetic. Hughes only scored 83.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Loma has a pretty low ﬂoor because she could just kickbox to a 
decision win, and she’s only +500 to win ITD. However, if Amorim 
is gassed like her last ﬁght, things could get ugly. 
Amorim has literally NEVER defended a takedown (0/5), and so 
that gives Loma some wrestling upside. Amorim was just knocked 
down. I don’t think Loma ﬁnishes her but a couple of takedowns, 
and some control and damage are very possible. At 8.1k, maybe 
Loma can squeak into the 90 point range if the beatdown is bad 
enough.
Loma won’t rate out nearly as well due to the lack of ITD equity 
and she’s a worse play on paper with a worse ﬂoor in a win, and a 
more questionable ceiling. If she’s contrarian, I don’t completely 
hate her as a differentiator given the binary nature of the matchup 
and Amorim’s cardio issues.
Brett’s Fight Prediction: Lookboonmee by Decision 
(Conﬁdence=Low)