Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                              https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/




                                               NFL In-Season Product Available NOW!   SUBSCRIBE !




                    Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week
                    1
                    PAT THORMAN           //     SEP 9, 2026




                                                                      "
                         Polymarket Sign-Up Bonus: Deposit $10,
                                        get $50!

1 of 13                                                                                                                      9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                   https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/



                          Trade on NFL games every week on Polymarket. Sign up for Polymarket
                                     with code ETR for a $50 bonus when you deposit $10.

                                                        Sign Up Now




                                     Up In Pace | Slow-Paced Slogs | No-Huddle Notes




                    Welcome to the Week 1 edition of Snaps & Pace — back-to-back winner of
                    the FSWA’s Best Football Series — where we examine trends in play
                    volume and game pace. It is meant to be a 30,000-foot view of upcoming
                    contests, while identifying main-slate matchups that will — and will not —
                    be played on fertile fantasy soil. For a primer on why this is important,
                    click here.

                    It is always advisable to know what you don’t know, but it’s especially true
                    for Week 1 of an NFL season. Not often are we surrounded by so many
                    confidently wrong opinions. The tricky part, clearly, is identifying them
                    before they correct.

                    From a pace perspective, there are always factors to be assured of. We’re
                    pretty damn sure the Kellen Moore Saints and Dak Prescott Cowboys will
                    again play fast. The Bengals are going to pass and, for as long as possible,
                    the Dolphins will run — and Aaron Rodgers is going to run his mouth
                    until play clocks kiss zero at the snap.

                    Week 1 is the perfect opportunity to challenge our assumptions and zig
                    while others zag. We have collectively constructed six months’ worth of
                    priors and, until proven plainly wrong on the field, they’ll get ridden
                    harder than trailer-park Jed York. If we aren’t especially sure of a
                    projection, it’s at least worth considering it’s wrong.

                    We are back, finally. There’s no better time of year to lean into what’s



2 of 13                                                                                                           9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                    https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/



                    known, question widely held assumptions, and finish up with a gaggle of
                    questions that Week 1 will begin answering. It’s been an interminable
                    offseason — so let’s dive in.




                    “Situation neutral” is meant to provide context and refers to plays while the game is
                    within seven points during the first three quarters (minus the final two minutes of
                    the first half). Neutral Pace (average play-clock seconds used), Neutral Pace Over
                    Expected (POE), and Pass Rate Over Expected (PROE) are based on neutral game
                    script and are provided by our data science team.




                    Up In Pace


                    Green Bay Packers at Minnesota Vikings

                    Projected for only the fifth-most points on the main slate, this divisional
                    matchup features a traditionally slow offense and one that
                    uncharacteristically crawled, and poorly, last season. Green Bay has
                    finished dead last in neutral seconds per snap more often during HC Matt
                    LaFleur’s seven-year tenure (three times) than above 25th (once). Their
                    games almost always lack volume, and the Packers have consistently
                    skewed run-heavy. That should change, especially with hammer back Josh
                    Jacobs on the Commissioner’s Exempt List, a currently suspect defense,
                    and a finally condensed wide receiver rotation. The working theory is that
                    looser game scripts, more throwing, and fewer time-sucking substitutions
                    will increase offensive pace. Sounds great on paper, anyway.

                    The Vikings enter 2026 from the opposite direction, having traditionally
                    been a fast offense. That is, until last year and J.J. McCarthy happened.
                    Minnesota dropped from 11th in neutral seconds per snap to 21st. Their



3 of 13                                                                                                            9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/



                    PROE dipped from third highest (+3.5%) to 14th (-1.2%), and the no-huddle
                    rate fell from ninth to 21st. Vikings games went from averaging the sixth-
                    most combined snaps to the 31st. Their defense took steps forward and,
                    with the offense cratering, Minnesota’s contests yielded the third-fewest
                    combined points (39.8). That defense should be formidable again, but it’s
                    been a boom-or-bust blitz-heavy unit under Brian Flores. In the right
                    back-and-forth game environment — especially played indoors — that
                    volatility can help spawn fantasy-friendly chaos. In this first NFC North
                    meeting, with Kevin O’Connell sending McCarthy to the glue factory in
                    favor of Kyler Murray, there’s a strong chance that’s exactly what we get.




                    New Orleans Saints at Detroit Lions

                    We would be remiss not mentioning the fastest-paced matchup of the
                    week, even if its 50-point total is about as subtle as Dan Campbell. When
                    leaning into what we know, this is our rock. There has been talk of the
                    Saints skewing more toward the run than last year, when they were eighth
                    in neutral pass rate (59%). That may be their intention, but as touchdown
                    road dogs, Kellen Moore will eventually need to dial up plenty of passes to
                    go with his preferred blazing tempo. A thin running back room behind
                    Travis Etienne won’t help potential plans to pound the rock. New Orleans
                    lapped the league in every conceivable pace measure a year ago, and Saints
                    games were third in combined offensive plays. Any matchup they’re
                    involved in is a strong bet to be voluminous.

                    Any matchup in Detroit’s dome comes with a similarly strong forecast for
                    fireworks. Lions games were top 10 in combined snaps, seventh in
                    explosive play rate, and averaged the third-most total points (52.6).
                    Detroit’s suspect secondary is already banged up, while its defensive front
                    is essentially an Aidan Hutchinson solo act, pending Alim McNeill getting
                    back up to speed. While the Lions haven’t played consistently fast, they did
                    finish eighth in neutral pace last year and sped up as the season progressed.
                    They also threw more after Campbell regained play-calling duties. We will



4 of 13                                                                                                        9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/



                    surely get plenty of Jahmyr Gibbs, but the void behind him on the depth
                    chart could nudge the Lions toward the air. The Saints need little help
                    creating a pulsing pace, but they’ll get some anyway.




                    Chicago Bears at Carolina Panthers

                    It would be easy to tack the Bucs-Bengals matchup here. Both offenses
                    historically spawn voluminous contests via aggressive pass rates, if not by
                    moving quickly between plays. Also, the total is over 50 points, and Ray
                    Charles can see that fantasy goodness. The Bears might try to score 50
                    every week on their own, judging by Ben Johnson’s soundbites. Either way,
                    they’ll likely move fast. Chicago ranked fifth in neutral pace over the final
                    month, plus the playoffs — speeding up from 18th before that. The Bears’
                    PROE leapt from 25th to 10th. Their games ranked sixth in both total
                    points and combined plays. Opponents operated with the fourth-fastest
                    neutral pace against Chicago last year. With a swinging-door defense that
                    projects to give it up like spring-break freshmen, the fantasy environments
                    will be pure sex.

                    The Panthers might be one of those aforementioned assumptions worth
                    challenging. We have been rug-pulled before on their tempo, with hollow
                    words from Dave Canales and Brad Idzik yielding a plodding pace for
                    their impotent offense. So why is this time different? Perhaps it isn’t, but
                    Bryce Young talked about his “greater mastery of the offense” allowing
                    him to break the huddle faster. Canales said the focus is on line-of-
                    scrimmage adjustments and “being able to play with tempo a little bit
                    more.” Idzik stressed being “urgent to the line of scrimmage” in multiple
                    interviews. Of course, words are wind — and the Panthers ranked 24th and
                    30th in neutral pace under Canales. They were 22nd in plays last season,
                    dead last the year before, and Young still hasn’t finished higher than 35th in
                    yards per attempt. Yet, at least for Week 1, there are extra unknowns in our
                    assumptions, and we are already wrong all the time. If Carolina indeed
                    plays fast against Chicago’s pregnable defense, we should get a shootout.



5 of 13                                                                                                        9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/




                    Slow-Paced Slogs


                    Buffalo Bills at Houston Texans

                    When Brandon Beane served Sean McDermott the scapegoat papers and
                    elevated former OC Joe Brady to the big chair, not only did he prove you
                    can survive Buffalo winters with thin skin — but hope immediately sprang
                    for the slow-paced, ground-committed offense to spread its wings.
                    Consider us skeptical. Brady’s ascension to OC during the 2023 season
                    marked a significant pivot to the run for Buffalo. His two seasons
                    coordinating Carolina’s offense in 2020 and 2021 yielded a 56% neutral
                    pass rate — in the same neighborhood as his 54% rate with the Bills. Buffalo
                    ranked 25th, 25th, and 28th in neutral pace with Brady as OC, and Bills
                    games produced the 24th-, 26th-, and 26th-most combined snaps during
                    that time. Adding D.J. Moore and featuring a momentarily healthy Dalton
                    Kincaid are arguments for opening the offense back up — but Houston’s
                    defense is convincing in the other direction.

                    The Texans’ passing offense only has one direction to go since we last saw
                    C.J. Stroud soil himself with 43% completions and four picks in
                    Foxborough. While the team still has faith in Stroud and the addition of
                    Kayshon Boutte will, in time, lessen the impact of losing Jayden Higgins,
                    the way to attack the Bills begins with handoffs. Buffalo faced the third-
                    highest opponent neutral run rate, and only the Giants surrendered more
                    EPA per play on the ground. Newly imported David Montgomery will be
                    busy right out of the gate, and we can expect the Texans to pound the rock
                    as long as game script allows. As short home favorites (-1.5), that should be
                    all day. Houston’s games were not particularly voluminous last season,
                    finishing 17th in combined plays. Yet, like the Bills, the Texans were adept
                    at controlling the ball, as both teams finished top three in snaps


6 of 13                                                                                                        9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                 https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/



                    differential. Two run-leaning teams playing keepaway is a rancid recipe for
                    play volume.




                    Miami Dolphins at Las Vegas Raiders

                    Focusing on this matchup’s flaccid defenses will tempt us toward the few
                    fantasy-relevant Raiders and Dolphins. They won’t find many easier
                    opponents all year. The key is not going overboard, as there’s a good
                    chance this one finishes before the other late-window games hit the fourth
                    quarter. The Dolphins might have lost volume-crunching coach Mike
                    McDaniel, but they didn’t add many accelerants. Miami will keep the ball
                    on the ground with De’Von Achane and Malik Willis as long as possible —
                    and with a field-goal spread, this should be the rare game where it’s
                    possible. Miami’s contests produced the fewest combined snaps in the
                    league last year, and it wouldn’t be a surprise if they go for the repeat.

                    If the Dolphins are looking for a spark to speed up this game — and they
                    aren’t — the Raiders would not qualify. Currently quarterbacked by the
                    crumbling husk of Kirk Cousins, without world-crushing TE Brock
                    Bowers, and favored for the last time before Christmas, Klint Kubiak won’t
                    be itching to air it out in his head coaching debut. His Seahawks had the
                    third-lowest PROE last year and ranked 26th in neutral seconds per snap.
                    Like the Dolphins, the Raiders will run it as long as they can — and there’s
                    a solid chance this matchup allows them to longer than in any game this
                    season. Knock yourself out if tickled by the prospect of Ashton Jeanty or
                    Achane in a favorable matchup, but keep in mind that stacking slow-paced
                    games is asking a lot from a little.




                    Atlanta Falcons at Pittsburgh Steelers

                    After an offseason of reps wasted on Tua Tagovailoa’s ghost, the shell-
                    shocked former Dolphin serves as cannon fodder for the Steelers’ home
                    opener. Michael Penix Jr. will soon take over — not soon enough for


7 of 13                                                                                                         9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/



                    Drake London enthusiasts — but is not ready to avert Atlanta’s Week 1
                    disaster. Tagovailoa can’t stretch the field with his arm or brave the pocket
                    long enough to try. With his concussion history, it’s hard to blame him —
                    especially with a Pittsburgh pass rush hovering around his helmet. While
                    the jury is still out on Kevin Stefanski’s preferred pace for the Falcons’
                    offense, it will move better once Penix is firing downfield than with Tua
                    dumping it quicker than Taylor Farms lettuce. Stefanski has faced
                    Pittsburgh 13 times as a head coach, and his offense scored three
                    touchdowns once — six seasons ago. His teams averaged 16.2 points since
                    then.

                    Pittsburgh’s offense almost certainly will not be as tested by the Falcons’
                    defense, even if it has its own challenges. Aaron Rodgers inexplicably
                    returns to Pittsburgh, only this time under his old HC from Green Bay.
                    The expectation in some circles is that Mike McCarthy will speed the
                    offense up relative to Mike Tomlin’s final years thanks to a higher pass rate
                    and quicker pace. Rodgers will agree to the passing, but likely won’t move
                    appreciably faster. Pittsburgh produced the sixth-fewest plays per game
                    last year, despite the seventh-highest neutral pass rate, because of its 27th-
                    ranked neutral pace. Getting Rodgers to move quicker will probably take
                    more than a McCarthy reunion — and it’ll definitely take more than the
                    Tua Falcons.

                    Update: Tagovailoa was ruled out on Friday, with Cooper Rush replacing
                    him as starter. The 32-year-old career backup was signed on the first day of
                    Falcons training camp. This does not meaningfully change the projection
                    for a slow-paced, mostly futile fantasy environment. The line moved two
                    points toward the Steelers (-6), strengthening the chance they control the
                    game with Rodgers’ preferred slow pace.




                    No-Huddle Notes


8 of 13                                                                                                        9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/




                    We will kick off the notes section with our most pertinent pace-based
                    questions. Not everything will become crystal clear after opening week —
                    when does it ever? — but many elusive answers reveal themselves right
                    from the first kickoff.




                    – Will the offense start out moving faster in Year 2 of Drake Maye’s
                    partnership with Josh McDaniels? The three-time Patriots OC has run up-
                    tempo offenses with multiple quarterbacks, mentioned this offseason that
                    they are looking for the next level in his scheme, and Maye practiced
                    hurrying to the line with no play calls throughout the offseason. Seattle is a
                    daunting spot to debut offensive wrinkles, so if we see signs of speeding up
                    in the opener, it should mean wheels up for the year.

                    – Thursday night’s harebrained Australia game at least offers an early
                    glimpse of two tempo trends. Will we be correct in projecting the Rams to
                    speed back up with Kliff Kingsbury on staff and turbocharge their tight
                    end rotation via increased no-huddle usage? On the other end, the 49ers
                    uncharacteristically played faster and threw a lot more than we’d gotten
                    used to. Their games were significantly more voluminous as a result, but
                    much of it was due to upside-down game scripts and Mac Jones starting.
                    With Brock Purdy in, the pace plummeted to league-low levels. The early
                    peek at both offenses could confirm expectations.

                    – We know the Commanders will be slower with David Blough replacing
                    Kingsbury, but we don’t know how much slower. The bet is a more
                    deliberate approach involving far more huddles and under-center snaps
                    won’t completely crush Washington’s tempo. A visit with the Eagles’
                    defense serves up a daunting first test of that theory.

                    – Will projected improvement from the Bengals’ defense and far more
                    under-center plays for the offense appreciably affect Cincinnati’s annually
                    pass-drunk approach? They were 29th in defensive EPA per play and



9 of 13                                                                                                        9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                 https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/



                    second in shotgun rate a year ago (82%). If the run game is more efficient
                    with fewer snaps in shotgun — from which teams tend to pass more — and
                    the defense keeps the Bengals in more positive scripts, their main pace
                    catalyst could be threatened. Cincinnati does not operate quickly between
                    snaps, and less shotgun won’t help there, so aggressive pass rates are non-
                    negotiable from a play-volume perspective.

                    – Will Jets-Titans be our first “beautifully ugly” game of the season? If the
                    main slate did not feature a meaty 12 games, we might have shoehorned
                    this one into Up in Pace. The Jets’ offense, while unlikely to be fast-paced,
                    has several exciting elements aside from their play-caller. The Titans
                    should eventually skew toward the quicker-moving teams under OC Brian
                    Daboll after many years of plodding — although growing pains are
                    expected. With both the Jets and Titans deploying combustible secondaries
                    ranked 29th and 30th by PFF, respectively, after allowing the most and
                    fourth-most EPA per pass play a year ago, at least these offenses get a soft
                    opener.

                    – It may be tough to tell until we see the Cowboys face a significant test —
                    and starting with the Giants and Commanders probably won’t qualify —
                    but there is a scary path to Dallas games not offering as much volume as
                    expected. The Cowboys will be improved on defense, as they made
                    significant roster and coaching upgrades; and, really, they can’t get any
                    worse. Importing Christian Parker as DC might be enough, by itself, to
                    slow Cowboys games down.

                    Parker’s defense is rooted in Vic Fangio’s coverage schemes. Fangio
                    defenses force opposing offenses to dink-and-dunk their way down the
                    field, grinding clock and slowing games. Before he landed in Philadelphia
                    as DC, the Eagles allowed the fifth-highest explosive play rate. In two
                    seasons since, they’ve surrendered big plays at the lowest and sixth-lowest
                    clips.

                    Over the last 10 years, Fangio’s teams were consistently involved in low-
                    volume games. Ignoring the COVID, fan-less, record-scoring season of



10 of 13                                                                                                        9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run               https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/



                    2020, Fangio was a DC eight times (he was a consultant for the Eagles the
                    10th year, when they allowed the second-lowest explosive play rate). The
                    average combined offensive plays in games with Fangio as DC — across
                    four different organizations — ranked 32nd, 31st, 30th, 30th, 25th, 18th,
                    16th, and 14th.

                    Cowboys contests have finished top five in combined snaps six of the last
                    seven years, usually helped by their Duraflame log of a secondary. Dallas
                    gave up the second- and seventh-highest explosive play rates over the last
                    two seasons and almost certainly will allow a lower frequency of pace-
                    juicing chunk gains under Parker. Fortunately, the Cowboys are still piloted
                    by Dak Prescott and the offense remains fast. Yet, it is worrisome from a
                    pace perspective if the offense will no longer chase game scripts while
                    getting quickly thrown back on the field due to a demolished defense.

                    – Week 1 wraps with our first glimpse of Davis Webb calling plays for the
                    Broncos. We have heard nothing but pace-positive projections of faster
                    play-calling and a streamlined between-snaps operation. While that
                    remains to be seen, Denver had already sped up under Sean Payton and
                    Bo Nix. There isn’t a ton of room to grow from a play-volume angle, as the
                    Broncos ranked fifth in snaps and their games were second in combined
                    plays — but we’d love to see them try.




                    Dan Campbell, Detroit Lions, In-Season Package, Snaps & Pace




11 of 13                                                                                                      9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                               https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/




                    SUBSCRIPTIONS
                    NFL Products
                    NBA Products
                    Golf Products
                    The Solver




                    ARTICLES
                    NFL Content Schedule
                    Silva’s Matchups
                    Best Ball
                    Free Podcasts




                    DFS
                    Projections
                    Strategy
                    DFS Optimizer
                    Simulations




                    ETR TEAM
                    About
                    YouTube
                    Discord
                    Twitter




                                © 2024 Establish the Run. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Service




12 of 13                                                                                                                      9/12/26, 10:52 PM
Thorman’s Snaps and Pace: Week 1 | Establish The Run                                    https://establishtherun.com/thormans-snaps-and-pace-week-1-8/




            Gambling problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ/PA/IL), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN only), 1-800-
            BETS-OFF (IA only), 1-800-522-4700 (CO Only), TN REDLINE: 800-889-9789 or
            1-888-532-3500 (VA only).




13 of 13                                                                                                                           9/12/26, 10:52 PM
