NFL In-Season Product Available NOW! SUBSCRIBE !
Top NFL Narratives: True or
False?
SAM BROTT     //     AUG 5, 2024
Polymarket Sign-Up Bonus: Deposit $10,
get $50!
"
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
1 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
A lot of NFL fans and fantasy players are certain. They’re sure that rookie
QBs target TEs more often, and rushing QBs throw to RBs less, and fast
WRs perform better on turf.
The ETR data science team decided to put these narratives to the test. We
used historical results to compare to expectations.
NARRATIVE 1: Mobile QBs score better against man defenses
Premise : When defenders are in zone defense, they are able to focus on
reading the quarterback. On the other hand, defenders are more likely to
have their backs turned to the quarterback when playing man defense. As a
result, quarterbacks are more likely to have better scrambling efficiency
against man defenses.
Analysis : We compared the average scramble yardage gained by defensive
scheme for both quarterbacks that do scramble regularly and those who do
not. We also reviewed the distribution of all quarterback scrambles from
the 2021-2023 seasons against both man and zone defenses.
Trade on NFL games every week on Polymarket. Sign up for Polymarket
with code ETR for a $50 bonus when you deposit $10.
Sign Up Now
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
2 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
3 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Takeaway : TRUE
The evidence suggests that quarterbacks have more scrambling success
against man defenses. This is true for both quarterbacks that scramble
regularly and those who do not. It is worth noting that most scrambles
have historically only gone for a handful of yards gained. However, the
majority of scrambles that have gained 10 or more yards have come
against man defenses, and these are the tail outcomes that we care about
most in fantasy. If we can regularly and accurately predict how often
defenses will play man versus zone, then we can gain an edge in predicting
the likelihood of a quarterback’s scrambling success. 
NARRATIVE 2: Mobile QBs throw to RBs at a lower rate
Premise : Quarterbacks who scramble often are less likely to check down to
their running backs because they are content to scramble instead.
Analysis : First, we compared the total positional target rates for both
quarterbacks that do scramble regularly and those who do not. Then, we
also compared the positional targets per game for each quarterback type. 
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
4 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
5 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Takeaway : TRUE
The evidence supports the narrative that scrambling quarterbacks throw to
running backs less often than non-scramblers do, but it may not be a
meaningful difference. While there is a slight difference in the running
back target rates for the two quarterback groups, it is only a ~1% difference.
Looking at raw targets per game, scrambling quarterbacks target running
backs only ~0.6 fewer times per game than non-scramblers. Overall, the
evidence is consistent but also weak and noisy. One example of this noise
is that the magnitude of the results is particularly sensitive to the exact
thresholds we use to deﬁne scramblers versus non-scramblers.
The noisy nature of these results is also highlighted in the notable ﬁnding
that scrambling quarterbacks have provided more opportunities for tight
ends. Here, it is important to recognize that some of the quarterbacks who
have scrambled the most over the past three seasons have been tied to
teams with an elite tight end or a weaker wide receiver corps (e.g., Justin
Fields ).
NARRATIVE 3: Mobile QBs provide better rushing opportunities for
their RBs
Premise : Running backs will be more efficient when playing with
quarterbacks who see signiﬁcant designed rush shares because opposing
defenses must respect the threat of the quarterback’s mobility.
Analysis : We compared the running backs’ expected yards per carry for
both quarterbacks that do see regular designed rushes and those who do
not. We also analyzed the same comparison using actual yards per carry.
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
6 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
7 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Takeaway : TRUE
The data indicates that running backs do beneﬁt from playing with mobile
quarterbacks, but the evidence is not overwhelming. When looking at Next
Gen Stats, the advantage of playing with a mobile quarterback was roughly
only 0.1 expected yards per carry on average. This advantage jumps
slightly to 0.2 when using actual yards per carry. But perhaps more
interesting is reviewing the full distribution of weekly outcomes by
quarterback type. As shown in the charts above, running backs have seen
slightly more right tail outcomes when playing with mobile quarterbacks.
Put another way, most running back carries will go for only a few yards,
but playing with a mobile quarterback increases the odds that a running
back’s carry will be a home run. Once again, these are the tail outcomes
that we should look for and can win us weeks in fantasy football. We
should be careful to not overweight this narrative, but it may be useful as a
ceiling tiebreaker in our weekly decisions.
NARRATIVE 4: Backup QBs are more likely to throw to backup WRs
Premise : Quarterbacks who were not the starter from Day 1 are more
likely to have worked with backup wide receivers in the preseason and
weekly practices. As a result, backup quarterbacks are more likely to
develop a connection with and target backup wide receivers when they
have opportunities to play in the regular season.
Analysis : We compared average wide receiver target rates by quarterback
roles. We removed Weeks 17 and 18 from this analysis to avoid games in
which multiple starters did not play.
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
8 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Takeaway : TRUE
In the 2021-2023 seasons, backup quarterbacks targeted backup WRs
approximately 2-3% more often than starting quarterbacks did. This
difference is even larger when including Weeks 17 and 18, as expected.
While a differential of 2-3% may only yield one additional target per game,
these small edges can add up over time. Additionally, these rates may be
even more exaggerated when zooming in on speciﬁc backup quarterback-
receiver duos.
NARRATIVE 5: Backup QBs throw to TEs more often
Premise : Backup quarterbacks are more likely to play it safe with more
dependable targets and are therefore also more likely to throw to tight
ends than starters are.
Analysis : We compared average positional target rates by quarterback roles
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
9 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
from the 2021-2023 seasons.
Takeaway : FALSE
As shown in the chart above, quarterbacks in spot starts targeted tight ends
at roughly an identical rate to starting quarterbacks. Long-term backups
targeted tight ends 3% more often than either of the other quarterback
groups, but we found no explanation for why long-term backups would
target tight ends more often than short-term backups. We ﬁnd it difficult to
consider this narrative to be true given this discrepancy between the long-
term backups and the spot starters. This is a good reminder that even over
the course of three full seasons, we generally deal with small sample sizes
for NFL analysis and need to be cautious in assuming causation. 
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
10 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
NARRATIVE 6: Offenses are more likely to exceed fantasy expectations
in dome games
Premise : Because domes provide controlled environments and are free of
variable weather, teams are more likely to be able to execute their offenses
according to plan. 
Analysis : We compared a variety of key macro stats between dome and
outdoor environments to measure the historical impact of dome
environments on each stat.
In dome games, relative to outdoor games, we see that:
• Teams score 13% more  TDs
• Teams run roughly the same  number of total plays and passing plays
(but slightly more running plays)
• Quarterbacks have 22% fewer  designed rushes and 12% fewer  scrambles
• Running backs receive 4% fewer  targets and 18% fewer receiving TDs
• Wide receivers and tight ends record 10% and 12% more  receiving yards,
respectively
• Wide receivers and tight ends score 22% and 33% more  receiving
touchdowns, respectively
• Quarterbacks score 12% more  DraftKings fantasy points
• Running backs, wide receivers, and tight ends score 6% more  DraftKings
fantasy points
• D/STs score 15% fewer  DraftKings fantasy points
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
11 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Takeaway : TRUE
The historical data conﬁrms the narrative that dome environments affect
macro game outcomes. Domes affect passing games more than the run
game, as quarterbacks are more efficient (and less likely to scramble/check
down to running backs). We should consider whether our players are
playing in dome settings for all positions, but especially for those involved
in the passing game. However, be careful not to double-count these effects,
as most projections, including ETR’s, already account for dome effects to
some degree. 
NARRATIVE 7: Multiple high-ADP skill players from the same offense
cannot all exceed ADP
Premise : Because running backs, wide receivers, and tight ends typically
need high volumes and large touchdown totals to pay off a high ADP, it’s
unlikely that multiple skill players from the same offense can
simultaneously exceed their ADPs.
Analysis : We reviewed all instances of a single team having two or more
skill players with an ADP of 36 or higher in PPR fantasy drafts from
2015-2023. In these scenarios, 61% of players exceeded expectations.
We also reviewed all instances in which a team had two or more total
players (including quarterback) with an ADP of 36 or higher. The success
rate is lower overall for this larger group of players at only 56%.
Takeaway : FALSE
Historical success rates suggest that we should not be scared of drafting
high-ADP skill players regardless of how many “mouths to feed” their
offenses have. Season-long projection models like ETR’s already account
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
12 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
for each player’s micro team environments and we don’t need to double-
count their impacts.
It was interesting to ﬁnd that high-ADP players with high-ADP teammates
have failed expectations more often when the team’s quarterback is one of
those teammates drafted in the top 36 spots. This is mostly due to the
fragility that’s present when an entire offense is predicated on the success
of its star quarterback. For example, when Andrew Luck  was injured in
2015, or Aaron Rodgers  in 2017, it was much more difficult for their high-
ADP teammates to provide value. This is a good reminder of why, even
though we want to draft quarterback stacks in best ball tournament
formats like Best Ball Mania, it is an unnecessary risk to take on in most
season-long fantasy formats.
NARRATIVE 8: QB-WR duos that were college teammates are more
likely to succeed (The #ShowerNarrative)
Premise : An Adam Levitan classic. When quarterback-receiver duos who
were also teammates (read: showered together) in college, they are more
likely to have developed an unbreakable bond during their formative years
and therefore the quarterback is more likely to target that receiver more
often than another quarterback would.
Analysis : We compared the targets per route run (TPRR) for receivers who
ﬁt the shower narrative and also played with at least one other quarterback
in his career over the 2021-2023 NFL seasons.
Four receivers had a notably higher  TPRR when playing with their former
college teammate:
1. Jaylen Waddle  (with Tua Tagovailoa )
2. Damien Harris  (with Mac Jones )
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
13 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
3. Robbie Chosen , formerly Robby Anderson  (with P.J. Walker )
4. Albert Okwuegbunam  (with Drew Lock )
Two receivers had a notably lower  TPRR when playing with their former
college teammate: 
1. DeVonta Smith  (with Jalen Hurts )
2. Travis Etienne  (with Trevor Lawrence )
Five receivers had roughly the same  TPRR when playing with their former
college teammate: 
1. Davante Adams  (with Derek Carr )
2. Ja’Marr Chase  (with Joe Burrow )
3. Marquise Brown  (with Kyler Murray )
4. James Washington  (with Mason Rudolph )
5. Dyami Brown  (with Sam Howell )
Takeaway : CASE-BY-CASE BASIS
This is a fun narrative to make jokes about and might actually be true for
some speciﬁc teammates. For example, Waddle had a notable drop in
TPRR when Tagovailoa wasn’t playing. However, the historical data
suggests that this narrative is very rarely predictive and making broad
assumptions based on this narrative alone will certainly lead us into
trouble.
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
14 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
NARRATIVE 9: Freak athletes are more likely to produce outlier results
(The PSM Narrative)
Premise : Another Adam Levitan specialty. Players who are freak athletes
(also known as players “popping in the PSM”) are just so amazing that they
cannot possibly fail to exceed expectations in fantasy football.
Analysis : We formally developed and quantiﬁed a rigorous PSM for each
of the four main fantasy football positions: quarterback, running back,
wide receiver, and tight end. We then assigned a PSM score to each player
from the 2021-2023 seasons and ranked each player within his position
and season. Finally, we compared each player’s PSM score to the difference
between our projections and the actual fantasy points scored on a weekly
basis for every player.
There was a very weak correlation between a player’s PSM score and their
ability to consistently exceed fantasy projections. However, we found one
very clear trend: Players who were ranked No. 1 in the PSM in a season for
their position nearly always  met or exceeded ETR’s weekly base projections
for the player on average across the season. This list of players includes:
• Josh Allen , all seasons 2021-2023
• Derrick Henry , all seasons 2021-2023
• DK Metcalf , all seasons 2021-2023
• George Kittle , all seasons 2021-2023
Takeaway : MAYBE TRUE
It’s a tough stretch to consider the PSM narrative to be true. However, it
may simply be another way to acknowledge that although these freak
athletes are no more likely to exceed their base projections in any given
week, their ceilings are massively high when they do exceed expectations.
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
15 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
These are the prototypes of players who may truly be “better in best ball”
and make for strong targets in DFS tournaments due to their abilities to
reach slate-breaking upsides.
Cincinnati Bengals , Ja'Marr Chase , Joe Burrow , NFL Draft Kit Pro
SUBSCRIPTIONS
NFL Products
NBA Products
Golf Products
The Solver
ARTICLES
NFL Content Schedule
Silva’s Matchups
Best Ball
Free Podcasts
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
16 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM
Gambling problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ/PA/IL), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN only), 1-800-
BETS-OFF (IA only), 1-800-522-4700 (CO Only), TN REDLINE: 800-889-9789 or
1-888-532-3500 (VA only).
DFS
Projections
Strategy
DFS Optimizer
Simulations
ETR TEAM
About
YouTube
Discord
Twitter
© 2024 Establish the Run. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy  | Terms of Service
Top NFL Narratives: True or False? | Establish The Run https://establishtherun.com/top-nﬂ-narratives-true-or-false/
17 of 17 9/12/26, 8:01 PM