                  :osWakhoe Meb Ehkkhnl
                  Tbbi 1 Eeud LTrtmaTv Tr 0 Ti 1S
                  This is a subscriber-only summary of EstablishThe Run content.
                  For more info, visit www.establishtherun.com.


                                                      Announcements

                             *Welcome into the 7th (probably) season of ETM!
                    Leone:AWe now have more editable sims in the SOLVER. Leone will go through
 @ 2hats1mike              in greater detail on his Saturday night show, so tune in.You can also sim
                           multiple contests at a time this year.
                             Spent a lot of time improving projections in the o3season. We also re-add-
                             ed the Player Comps tool after a hiatus the last couple years. It shows the
                             top 50 comps for a player on a given week.
@ drewdinkmeyer       Dink:AVery excited about the improvements to the SOLVER, projections, and a
                            greater focus on FanDuel contests. This will by far be our best season of
                            FanDuel coverage.

                                                           Week 1

                    Leone:ABest week to IKB because of input volatility. We have the best assump-
                           tions and projections in the industry, but we haven’t seen anyone play yet.
                           There will be spots where the sims won’t like a guy, but there’s a lot of
                           upside if you get on the right IKBs. Especially in sim-heavy contests.
                      Dink:AOur projections on the whole will be good, but there are individual plays
                            that no one will be able to predict, like Davante Adams not being in the
                            goal line packages for the Rams on Thursday.


                                                        Game Scores

                    Leone:AFour late window games. LAC-ARI and LV-MIA are important late games.
                           LAC-ARI has gamestack potential and LV has two cheap pieces in Mayer
                           and Tucker. This will probably be an emergency late-swap week.
                      Dink:ADi3icult late swap week to execute. Mayer is $2,900 on DK and there’s
                            no viable player at that same salary level. So you’d need to have a high-
                            er-salary player in your lineup and make it a 2v2 swap.You could run late
                            window stacks so you have more spots to get Mexible.

                                                           NO-DET

                    Leone:AGibbs is a clear smash. Go# is a good price and can be stacked with
                           Amon-Ra, Jameson, and LaPorta. Olave, Juwan, and Etienne are
                           all solid. Strongly considering the DET double or onslaught on DK with
                           Olave, Vele, or Juwan coming back.
:osWakhoe Meb Ehkkhnl
Tbbi 1 Eeud LTrtmaTv Tr 0 Ti 1S
                                   NO-DET
 Dink:AHow many players from this game is too many? Depends on Peld
       size. In a small Peld contest, you could get into 6 players but you can
       run into very similar lineups. Would limit it to 5 players in large Peld.
       Will likely have a piece of this game in every lineup even if not playing
       a stack. This will the highest-owned game without a doubt. Etienne
       and Jameson will probably be the lowest-owned of the game but no
       one is going under the radar.
        Juwan and LaPorta will be lower owned on FD because of the Mayer
        ownership.

                                   TB-CIN


Leone:AHigher game total here than NO-DET. Like this one especially on
       FD.You can skinny stack Burrow-Chase. Ownership dictates the
       TB bringback. Mike Evans is gone so there’s variance in how they
       play, and who the TD scorers will be. Sean Tucker is trending toward
       playing. He was the primary goal line RB last year, but it could have
       been a result of Bucky’s shoulder injury. Most interested in Bucky
       and Egbuka. Ted Hurst is an interesting cheap play in large Peld, as
       he had a lot of 1st team reps in the preseason.
 Dink:ACIN is condensed so they’re exciting to stack. Concerned the Peld
       might overplay this game because of the perception of CIN’s de-
       fense. TB has a strong OL but CIN poured a lot of resources into their
       defense this o3season. TB’s pass catchers have modest ownership
       projections making them excited. Instincts are cautious but like
       the ownership. Would be bummed if he plays into it but ownership
       steams. Otton will be minimally owned because it’s a strong TE slate.
       You’d need him to get 15+ points. Like him for large Peld.


                                   BAL-IND

Leone:AProbably not gamestacking this. Could see a Dimes-Warren stack
       with a BAL bringback.
 Dink:AMore interested in the BAL side. Lamar is squeezing. There’s a
       perception that you can’t stack him and that he doesn’t hit his ceiling
       when Zay Flowers hits his. Mostly think that’s just small sample size.
       Flowers has been so close to scoring more TDs. Regression can hit
       and he just becomes a slight-below-average TD scorer. Then bring
       and IND piece back.
:osWakhoe Meb Ehkkhnl
Tbbi 1 Eeud LTrtmaTv Tr 0 Ti 1S
                              GPP Game Scores
                                   ARI-LAC
 Leone:AExcited to play LAC. They can blow their team total out. If NO-DET
        steams especially high in small Peld, that directly takes ownership
        away from here.You can use Hampton alongside Herbert. Don’t
        necessarily need a bringback.

                                   CHI-CAR

 Leone:AThis one starts to sim well in large Peld.You could see them both get-
        ting very run-heavy. Rome looks like he’ll play but could be limited.
        Could get more condensed on Loveland and Burden. McMillan is a
        solid one-o3.
  Dink:AAgree this is more of a large Peld game to stack. The ceiling is high
        if CHI gets uptempo and pushes it. CHI OL has a big advantage over
        CAR DL so Swift is in a good spot. Chuba is also in play vs a weak
        CHI DL and Brooks working through another injury. Coker is an un-
        der-the-radar play. Especially like Loveland and Chuba.

                                   BUF-HOU

 Leone:AStroud-Nico-Schultz is interesting in something like the $5 Milly
        Maker. BUF has a completely new defense this year. Could bring DJ
        Moore back.

                                    GB-MIN

 Leone:APretty into this for stacks. No Josh Jacobs and a more condensed WR
        tree. They could push the pace this year. Playing an aggressive MIN
        defense that could further push it. Then there’s a lot of questions with
        Kyler and MIN. Addison is especially cheap on FD and Je#erson is
        strong on both sites. He’ll be a fraction of Chase’s ownership. Might
        be aggressive for small Peld contests but better for mid-sized. Start-
        ing with Kyler-Je#erson-Hockenson gives you late-swap options.
  Dink:AMIN defense has been strong but can give up big plays. Kyler-Je#er-
        son is one of Dink’s favorite stacks. Like Reed coming back.You could
        also get into Lloyd.
:osWakhoe Meb Ehkkhnl
Tbbi 1 Eeud LTrtmaTv Tr 0 Ti 1S
                          Good Chalk Bad Chalk
                               Quarterback

Leone:AGo#, Shough, Burrow, and Herbert are the 4 highest owned. Will
       look at getting away from Go# in small Peld because of the steam.
       Projections like T Law and we didn’t cover them in Game Scores.
       Playing a very di3erent CLE defense compared to last year. Nice pro-
       jection on P Wash to stack with. BTJ comes into play on FD with the
       TD upside and salary.
 Dink:ALawrence has a rushing component, especially inside the redzone.
       Very conPdent his ownership stays low and Washington stays mod-
       estly-owned. Good spot for that stack. Like Hurts-Devonta-Goedert
       in large Peld vs WAS. Could make the case for Willis or Geno because
       of the tight pricing. Can pair Geno with Wilson or Mitchell. Willis
       won’t be in Dink’s player pool. He could have a good score but not
       carry any teammates along.


                               Running Back

Leone:AGibbs will be massively owned. In a nut spot. Do you play game
       theory or jus play him with the ownership? Have Gibbs in 3 of 4
       high-stakes lineups. In the Player Comps tool, he has 3 comps of 50
       point performances but there are also a handful of 5-10 point comps.
       Otherwise there are a lot of low double digit owned RBs. Very excited
       about a fresh Derrick Henry. Ceiling is up there with Achane. Hard to
       predict, but some of these $6K RBs will squeeze. Interested in playing
       3 RBs on DK this week. Top lineups are using more 3 RB than the Peld
       and it won’t be super owned this week.
        Pivots: Thinking hard about Bijan. Looking like he’ll squeeze and
        the whole o3ense could run through him. Breece is looking like he’ll
        squeeze as well. Etienne will probably get pushed up because of the
        game environment. Would be into Bucky is he were to squeeze but
        no promises. Rico Dowdle at $5.2K could lead in carries and be the
        goal line back. Could make a similar case for Warren if you prefer
        him.
 Dink:AIf he were playing one lineup, it would have Gibbs. So conPdent in
       DET’s o3ense being successful that if Gibbs fails, the points will come
       through Go#. There’s no escaping the ownership so will probably lean
       more into Gibbs and play other stacks that can outscore Go#. Easier
       to fade Go# and the passing game than Gibbs. Achane is likely to
       get loaded up with touches. Very curious to see his receiving volume.
       View him as a tougher play as the 2nd highest owned RB. Could see
       the Peld backing o3 him and making ownership even more Mat. More
       excited about Hampton but concerned he steams. Least bullish on
       Jeanty. Great matchup and price, but there are questions about his
       health and the overall o3ense.
:osWakhoe Meb Ehkkhnl
Tbbi 1 Eeud LTrtmaTv Tr 0 Ti 1S
                            Good Chalk Bad Chalk
                                Running Back

  Dink:APivots: Don’t think the Peld will play 13% Jeanty. Previously men-
        tioned not liking him as much, but he becomes a lot more interesting
        in the 5-8% ownership range. For PIT RBs, you know Rodgers throws
        it to RBs, making them particularly strong on DK. Don’t think Chase
        Brown will be unique in a Burrow stack so not crazy about him.
         FanDuel: Hampton is the clear #2 RB here because of price. Lloyd
         is just $4,900. Could see people getting sucked into playing him
         more than they should. He’s a great price but there’s fragility and real
         opportunity cost. Dink would rather pay down at WR than play Lloyd,
         given the tough matchup and potentially limited workload. James
         Cook could really get squeezed. Tough matchup but he’s highly e3i-
         cient. There’s 80 yards and 2 TD potential for Chuba.


                                Wide Reciever

 Leone:AChase, Amon-Ra and Olave are the top 3. Then Flowers and Tre
        Tucker rounding out the top 5 in ownership. Gibbs carrying so much
        ownership keeps any of them from really steaming. Tucker will
        certainly be the preferred punt. There’s a non-zero chance Chase is a
        little banged up.
         Pivots: Like the LAC guys. They aren’t low owned but also not chalk.
         It’ll be interesting to see where Egbuka lands. Has Evans gone and
         a strong game environment, but is coming o3 the toe injury. Drake
         London is going overlooked because of the QB situation. Interesting
         in mid-large Peld contests. Downs has gotten a lot of o3season hype.
         Not sure of Pierce’s role after being out all o3season.
  Dink:AWill probably dock Chase’s projection a little bit. Amon-Ra can “fail”
        by scoring his usual 20, as long as he doesn’t hit his 40 ball. These
        players aren’t bad chalk, there are just other options that aren’t that
        di3erent of plays but at lower ownership. Not suggesting to be super
        underweight the top 3, but you can play guys like Je#erson and Col-
        lins as pivots.
         Pivots: Think QJ is a good pivot o3 Tre Tucker. Think they separate in
         ownership. Wilson and Devonta Smith could be pure #1s that’s hard
         to project. Don’t think the Peld gets very aggressive with them and
         wouldn’t be surprised if they separate from their teammates. Coker is
         like the QJ play with no ownership.
:osWakhoe Meb Ehkkhnl
Tbbi 1 Eeud LTrtmaTv Tr 0 Ti 1S
                           Good Chalk Bad Chalk
                               Wide Reciever

 Dink:AFanDuel: Watson gets into the mix on DK. Tucker is less of a factor.
       Dink isn’t the highest on Watson when he comes with ownership. He
       had a great Pnish to the season. Will be on him in future weeks, but
       don’t think this is the spot. Would rather play Ladd, Burden, Wilson,
       Washington. Dink likes the idea of playing 3 RBs, excluding Lloyd,
       and concentrating your WRs in the $6,500 and below bucket.You can
       naturally build high-upside teams with that build.


                                  Tight End

Leone:AMayer is the chalk on both sites. He’s good chalk. He could be 50-
       60% owned on a di3erent slate. LaPorta, Juwan, Loveland, and
       Warren are secondary chalk. Will consider Hockenson in Kyler
       stacks. Kraft pops as a ceiling play.
 Dink:AMayer stepped up last year with Bowers out in a completely dys-
       functional o3ense and delivered. He’s been productive when he’s
       had chances and has little-to-no target competition. He’ll be running
       routes in the areas of the Peld that work for an old Kirk Cousins. He
       would be a thousand dollars more expensive if pricing wasn’t released
       before the Bowers injury.
        It’s a very strong TE week. Favorite TE after Mayer is Loveland. He’s
        been the healthiest pass-catcher for Bears this o3season. Think the
        pass game runs through him. Can get into Schultz and Otton for
        low-owned options. Silva was very into Freiermuth. Hesitant on
        Kraft this week, given the strength of the position.

                                    D/ST


Leone:AJets, Browns, Raiders, and Titans are all cheap options. Jags are
       more expensive but project well.
 Dink:AChalk defenses are mostly solid. Being a tight slate, it’s a spot where
       the salary relief helps. Some high-end D/STs, like Jags and Eagles
       could go overlooked. We talked on the DFS pod last week about how
       top end teams are paying up at D/ST more frequently.
:osWakhoe Meb Ehkkhnl
Tbbi 1 Eeud LTrtmaTv Tr 0 Ti 1S
                              FlagPlants


  Dink:AJustin Je#erson // Parker Washington
 Leone:ALadd McConkey // Derrick Henry
